AMS Style Guide
Journals
October 2017
AMS Style Guide: Journals
AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY
160 pages • 3/8 inch • 7 x 10 inches

AMS Style Guide
Journals
October 2017
Mary Letourneau and Jennifer Wright Sharp
Victoria Ancona
Thomas Costa
Lauren Foster
Michael Haggett
Rebecca Rivard
Rachel Rossi
Michael Saitas
Deborah Smith
Isabel Stafford
Barbara Beeton and Arlene O’Sean
With:

This style guide evolved from Ellen Swanson’s seminal work on typesetting mathemat-
ics,Mathematics into Type, and the American Mathematical Society (AMS) practice of
mentoring its copy editors.
Mary Letourneauhas been a technical editor at the AMS since 1980. For eight years
she was director of the AMS Production Department. In her formative days as an editor,
she trained with Ellen Swanson.
Jennifer Wright Sharphas been a production editor at the American Mathematical
Society since 1992. Prior to joining the AMS, she worked for a sailing magazine and as
the managing editor for a multimedia training systems company.
Each of the following AMS staff contributed substantively to this style guide:
Victoria Ancona Michael Haggett Michael Saitas
Thomas Costa Rebecca Rivard Deborah Smith
Lauren FosterRachel RossiIsabel Stafford
Barbara Beeton and Arlene O’Sean
Acknowledgment is gratefully made to the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics
(SIAM) for allowing liberal use of its style guide as a basis for this work. Any copy editor
using both AMS and SIAM style guides is warnedthat they describe very different styles,
no matter the superficial similarities.
The text in this style guide is set in AMS-L
A
T
E
X using 11 point Computer Modern type. All
files were run through the document class for the AMS Graduate Studies in Mathematics
series. The cover and title page were created by Peter Sykes, art director and manager of
AMS Creative Services.
This document is available at
http://www.ams.org/publications/authors/authors.
This publication may be freely shared and adapted. You are free to copy and redistribute it in
any medium or format, and to remix, transform, and build upon it for any purpose.
Printed in the United States of America.
Visit the AMS home page athttp://www.ams.org/
10987654321 222120191817

Contents
Prefacevii
Part 1. Structure
Introduction to Part 13
Chapter 1. The Basics of Copyediting for the AMS5
§1.1. Approaching the paper7
§1.2. The copyediting process7
§1.3. Author queries10
§1.4. Advice we still like10
§1.5. Miscellaneous hints12
§1.6. Resources12
Chapter 2. Top Matter, Running Heads, and End Matter15
§2.1. Top matter15
§2.2. Running heads21
§2.3. End matter21
Chapter 3. Section and Subsection Heads27
§3.1. Heading styles27
§3.2. Numbering29
§3.3. Text callouts30
Chapter 4. Enunciations31
§4.1. Enunciations31
iii

ivContents
Chapter 5. Footnotes37
Chapter 6. Lists39
§6.1. Numbering39
§6.2. Type style and arrangement40
§6.3. Punctuation and capitalization41
§6.4. Text callouts41
§6.5. List examples42
Chapter 7. Figures45
§7.1. Numbering45
§7.2. Captions46
§7.3. Permissions47
§7.4. Figure placement and text callouts48
§7.5. Sizing and altering figures48
§7.6. Landscape figures49
§7.7. Some examples49
Chapter 8. Tables53
§8.1. Numbering54
§8.2. Captions54
§8.3. Permissions55
§8.4. Table placement and text callouts55
§8.5. Sizing and altering tables56
§8.6. Landscape tables56
§8.7. Some examples57
Chapter 9. Appendices61
§9.1. Form61
§9.2. Text callouts62
Chapter 10. References63
§10.1. Reference checking63
§10.2. Reference examples65
§10.3. Reference citations66
Chapter 11. Corrigenda and Errata67
§11.1. Title and running heads68
§11.2. Abstract and other top matter68

Contentsv
Part 2. Editing and Style
Introduction to Part 271
Chapter 12. Editing Text73
§12.1. Basic editing74
§12.2. Mathematical symbols in text75
§12.3. Type76
§12.4. Capitalization in lists79
§12.5. Wording80
§12.6. Acronyms83
§12.7. Punctuation84
§12.8. Quotations95
§12.9. Gender-neutral and bias-free language95
§12.10. Miscellaneous applications96
Chapter 13. Editing Mathematics97
§13.1. Numbers97
§13.2. Variables98
§13.3. Standard abbreviated forms of mathematical expressions
(inf,max,min, etc.) and functions (sin,cos,tan, etc.)98
§13.4. Punctuation100
§13.5. Line dots (ldots) and centered dots (cdots)102
§13.6. Fences103
§13.7. Sums (

) and products (

)104
§13.8. Unions (∪,

) and intersections (∩,

)105
§13.9. Integrals106
§13.10. Fractions107
§13.11. Cases109
§13.12. Matrices110
§13.13. Diagrams111
§13.14. Equation numbers112
§13.15. Spacing in displays113
§13.16. Breaking equations in text114
§13.17. Breaking and aligning equations in displays116

viContents
Part 3. Appendices
Appendix A. Functions and Operators Set in Roman Type123
Appendix B. Some Mathematician Names125
Appendix C. Common Abbreviations and Latin Expressions133
Appendix D. Nomenclature135
Appendix E. Variables in Various Fonts and Languages139
Appendix F. Commonly Confused Words141
Appendix G. Sample Edited Article143
Bibliography159
Index161

Preface
Each year AMS staff and freelancers edit and publish well over 1,000 journal
articles and 80 book volumes, totaling some 60,000 pages of mathematical
research. The “raw material” is submitted from every active area of mathe-
matics, and it is funneled through the peer-review process for each journal or
book series. These accepted works are then submitted for publication in one
of the AMS’s many journal or book series. Prior to any work being accepted,
the author has likely had to address a number of comments from journal or
book series editors. These comments can be anything from suggestions for
substantive changes in the mathematics to requests for ESL (English as a
second language) problems to be resolved. And that all happens before a
copy editor touches the manuscript.
This research is the product of deep expertise—and widely varying levels
of writing ability. Additionally, mathematics does not only exist in a lab—it
is a vibrant and specific language of mathematical symbols as well as letters
from different alphabets. Each mathematician will have developed a unique
style of writing that has been refined through years of communicating results
with colleagues. Mathematicians are able writers, some are even exceptional.
In other words, this is a tough crowd for the aspiring copy editor.
For a copy editor, learning to work with mathematical copy involves un-
derstanding how mathematical notation equates to different parts of speech,
how mathematics is presented (both in text and in display), what the nomen-
clature is, etc., in addition to knowing copyediting practices and learning
AMS style.
vii

viiiPreface
An unexpected publishing cycle
In the past the AMS relied on training its copy editors through mentor-
ing. Each accepted paper or book was typeset at the AMS, and then two
proofreaders would sit together while one read the author’s original to the
other, who marked the AMS copy for errors. A spoken language for reading
mathematical symbols was known to generations of AMS copy editors and
proofreaders. It was an extremely efficient system: train new copy editors
and pass on the mentor’s knowledge of AMS style and general copyediting
practices, and at the same time proofread newly typeset copy.
In 1971 Ellen Swanson, former director of the AMS editorial staff, wrote
Mathematics into Type. Her original work formalized type specs for handling
mathematical symbols, equation breaking across lines, protocols for the use
of fonts, approaches to sentence structure and reference style, production
processes, etc. This small authoritative book became—and remains—the
guide recommended byThe Chicago Manual of Stylefor anyone looking to
typeset mathematics properly.
With the invention of T
E
X and, later, the wide acceptance of L
A
T
E
Xasthe
best platform for typesetting mathematics, the detailed specs for symbols
and their spacing became part of the code. Thanks to this improvement,
many fewer corrections had to be made. With this streamlining and better
prepress processing of electronically submitted manuscripts, the role of the
copy editor changed dramatically. In expectation of deep cost savings, more
and more of what the author submitted was not changed whenever it could
be let go. The AMS referred to this as “editorial lite”, and it became the
new standard for editorial practice: if it isn’t wrong, let it stand.
This practice did not hold up, however. The AMS realized that, unless
you could mentor your copy editors and foster an understanding of which
edits are important to the AMS and its authors, it was nearly impossible
to uphold any level of consistency. A copy editor has to understand all
the rules before knowing where to break them. Many attempts at hiring
freelance copy editors ended in confusion, since the essence of what matters
to the AMS is learned over time. It also became clear that senior editorial
staff were quietly adhering to traditional editorial practices while upholding
the spirit of less editorial intervention. This “less is more” approach was
popular with AMS authors and membership, though they remained quick
to point out errors.
It was clear that a combination of traditional copyediting practices as
well as instruction in how to read mathematics as parts of speech was the
only path to keeping copy editors trained consistently. Additionally, as the
copyediting function is becoming more “decentralized” (that is, we need to
hire and train freelancers, not just in-house staff), creating a method for

Prefaceix
mentoring was essential. This style guide is intended to function as an “on-
line mentor”, thus closing the circle in a very twenty-first century way.
Into the breach!
Editorial work is most often noticedin the breach—if you miss some-
thing, someone else will catch it and let you know. The corollary to this
is that the best editorial work is completely invisible: a properly rendered
sentence may well have had some editorial help that allowed it to flow seam-
lessly, to transmit its message and not trip up the reader with awkward
phrasing. And the copy editor must never, ever impose his or her style on
the author. Again—with emphasis—invisibility is our goal.
The copy editor’s job is to ensure accuracy and readability while main-
taining the author’s intent and wording, and to ensure AMS style. This is a
balancing act, and with such diverse writing styles, we find that flexibility
is valued over dictates. Copyediting is a deep discipline, one that is often
overlooked: something that tends to be invisible when it is good does not
call attention to itself. But authors appreciate it when we catch an error,
when we smooth out an awkward phrase, when we explain why a change was
made. This is the “value added” to work that carries the AMS imprimatur.
This style guide contains a load of information—it is a compilation of
decades of experience and AMS best practices. The copy editor should
expect it to take quite some time to master. Given the amount of material
we are publishing and the level of quality we plan to maintain, we hope
that copy editors reading this will realize it’s worth their time. We suggest
keeping this guide andThe Chicago Manual of Stylereadily available while
copyediting.
AMS style is based upon Ellen Swanson’sMathematics into Typeand
The Chicago Manual of Style, along with dashes of Strunk and White’s
Elements of Styleand the ever-usefulWords into Type. The AMS prefers
a current approach to spelling but a more conservative approach to usage.
Accordingly, we useThe Merriam–Webster Dictionaryfor spelling, but we
followThe American Heritage Dictionary of the English Languagefor its
excellent usage guidance. Our notions of best practices are based on our
experience in preparing material for publication within the AMS production
system and answering questions from authors, compositors, and production
staff.
Throughout this style guide there are notes intended to help the copy
editor develop an understanding of whatshouldbe changed, whatmaybe
changed, and whatmust notbe changed. These notes appear in every
chapter of Parts 1 and 2, and we have added many specific references to
[CMS16], [MIT], [S-W3], and [WIT].

xPreface
To help the copy editor master this material, we have broken the infor-
mation into functional parts. Part 1 outlines the AMS work process and
the components of an AMS journal paper. Part 2 is all about editing—both
text and mathematics. The final part contains appendices with mathemati-
cally specific information. All three parts have material that the copy editor
will need to reference on a regular basis—so set your bookmarks. Finally,
we have tried to index the material within this guide to be intuitive and
effective.
This is a “living document”, and the AMS invites you to email queries
and updates tostyleguide@ams.org. We anticipate regular revisions.
Acknowledgments
It has been understood for some years now that we needed to codify AMS
editorial practices and style in order to pass it on. At this writing we have
people who have spent their entire careers at the AMS—one for 37 years,
another for 42 years, and even a senior L
A
T
E
X guru who has been here for
almost 55 years. Mary Letourneau has watched the AMS production process
move from linotype to L
A
T
E
X, and she has trained countless new editorial
staff. Her combined mathematical and editorial expertise have made her an
arbiter among highly trained staff and a favorite with authors.
In our search for an appropriate model for theAMS Style Guide,we
reviewed the style guide written by the editors at the Society for Industrial
and Applied Mathematics (SIAM). Their guide resonated with us, and we
have worked extensively with it as the basis for this one. TheAMS Style
Guidediffers from theSIAM Style Guidein substantive ways—our styles
and work processes are unique to our organizations. But we would not have
been able to get to this point as quickly and efficiently if it were not for their
openness to share material. We thank them effusively.
Along the way, a superb but anonymous copy editor spent some time
reviewing this manuscript. Her corrections ranged from the substantive
to the mundane, but they made this a better guide. We thank her both
for her good work and for reminding us of the value of solid copyediting.
(After decades together, it was reaffirming to see that we’ve got like-minded
colleagues outside our walls.)
Finally, we thank the AMS for funding this project and our entire de-
partment for contributing material for examples and for reviewing all those
drafts.
Jennifer Wright Sharp
April 2017

Part 1
Structure

Introduction to Part 1
Part 1 addresses a variety of topics related to structural issues. Initially, we
focus on our prescribed work process and the tools we have created to help
copy editors produce a consistent product. After establishing these basics,
we move on to discussing each element of an AMS journal paper. There are
examples throughout. Many are marked with tell-tale dingbats:
this symbol is a seal of approval;
okthis symbol means we can accept this variation; and
this symbol indicates the variation does not meet AMS standards.
While Part 2 contains in-depth discussions of text and mathematical
copyediting and style, it was not possible to present examples and details
of the various elements of a paper without mentioning specific copyediting
requirements for many of them. The copyediting discussed in Part 1 is
intended to happen during the earliest stages of review, and it is largely
mechanical. With practice, it will become reflexive.
The text block
Each finished journal is 7×10 inches and perfect bound (soft cover). The
text block differs among the journals:
•30×50.5 pica text block for AMS primary journals—Bulletin of the
AMS,Journal of the AMS,Mathematics of Computation,Proceedings
of the AMS, andTransactions of the AMS—and forSugaku Exposi-
tions; and
3

4Introduction to Part 1
•32×52.5 pica text block for the Russian translation journals—Theory
of Probability and Mathematical StatisticsandTransactions of the Mos-
cow Mathematical Society.
All nontabular material is set in a single column of left- and right-
justified text. The body of the text begins immediately below the abstract
or, if included, the contents of the paper. Journal text is 10pt Computer
Modern,
1
roman, indented at beginning of each paragraph, and with no
extra space between paragraphs. Top-level section heads and enumerated
elements have white space above and below; lower-level section heads only
have space above.
The body of the text
The body of an AMS journal paper has many elements:
•top matter, running heads, and end matter (see Chapter 2);
•section heads (see Chapter 3);
•text (deferred to Part 2);
•enunciations, including theorems, definitions, remarks, and proofs (see
Chapter 4);
•footnotes (see Chapter 5);
•lists (see Chapter 6);
•mathematics, both in text and in display (deferred to Part 2);
•figures and tables (see Chapters 7 and 8); and
•references (see Chapter 10).
In addition, there are ancilliary elements that are regularly seen in AMS
journals:
•appendices (see Chapter 9); and
•corrigenda and errata (see Chapter 11).
Each element is coded within a L
A
T
E
X file that calls in AMS style files and
then outputs a paper formatted in our house style for each journal. Many
of these elements have multiple jobs to do and are pulled out differently
during the various production processes. We refer to these asdownstream
processing needsand, when applicable, these needs are explained.
1
At the time of this writing, the AMS is using Computer Modern type, but it is anticipated
that within the forseeable future there will be a change to STIX fonts. All font references in this
version are to Computer Modern (CM).

Chapter 1
The Basics
of Copyediting
for the AMS
The AMS approach to publishing mathematical material is to let the author
be heard. However, the AMS imposes certain constraints that make its
publication style consistent across its many journals. Here we discuss where
this process starts, and we will give you the necessary information and tools
to make editorial choices that will be consistent with AMS requirements.
Almost all AMS papers are prepared by authors using the L
A
T
E
X math-
ematical typesetting system. The AMS has created style files that are used
for all journal articles. Upon receipt of the author L
A
T
E
X files, the compos-
itors add AMS style files and make only those changes necessary for the
files to work within the AMS production system. This complex production
system produces both print and online versions of the papers.
Once the style files have been applied, the format and page layout of
the paper will match the AMS style for that journal, ideally eliminating the
need for the copy editor to mark type specs or format codes. However, the
copy editor will need to keep a sharp eye out for any element that does not
match AMS format requirements (see Chapters 2 and 4).
The math in AMS papers is changed as little as possible. The copy
editor should work under the assumption that the author has set up the
equations in a certain way for a reason. Changes to the math are made only
if inconsistencies in setup or format exist within a paper, or under specific
circumstances described in the chapters that follow. Ask the question, “Is
this clear and understandable the way it is?” If so, leave it alone.
5

61. The Basics of Copyediting for the AMS
Figure 1.AMS Journal Article Checklist and Style Sheet

1.2. The copyediting process7
1.1. Approaching the paper
This section is intended to acquaint the copy editor with how the AMS
would like each paper approached. We have created a checklist and style
sheet specifically for journal papers, and its purpose is to define a consistent
work process among copy editors.
Each manuscript package will contain the author’s accepted manuscript
and the AMS output. Additionally, the manuscrupt package may include
permissions, any pertinent email, and/or graphics checking output.These
materials must remain with the manuscript package. The copy editor should
review all material within the package, make any notes or queries about per-
missions (see sections 7.3 and 8.3), and then move ahead with the checklist.
Completing the checklist (see the top of Figure 1) should precede any
copyediting of the manuscript. While checking the numbering system (see
the bottom of Figure 1), the copy editor should address any incorrectly coded
enunciations (theorems, definitions, remarks, proofs, and their variants), as
the preparation by the compositor sometimes involves extensive reworking
of the L
A
T
E
X coding in a paper (see section 1.2.1(4)). The various elements
and enunciations that make up an AMS journal paper are described in detail
in Chapters 2 and 4.
During the copyedit, the copy editor shouldmake extensive notes in
the style sheet portion about those stylistic decisions that are unique to each
paper(see the center portion of Figure 1).
After the copyedited manuscript is returned, any copy editor queries as
well as all author communication will be handled. Completing the docu-
mentation in the checklist and style sheet will create a definitive reference
for the rest of the production cycle, and it will help ensure accuracy and
conformity with AMS style.
1.2. The copyediting process
Before you start, check all materials in the manuscript package for any
relevant information (e.g., any permissions issues or email about problems at
submission). If you have any queries at this point, write them up for either
the AMS or the author. The AMS prefers that the copy editorexplicitly
address any queries to either “AMS:” or “Author:”.
We organize this process into three passes through the manuscript, each
with a different focus. A detailed discussion of how to copyedit AMS pa-
pers is deferred to Part 2, which covers editing and style of both text and
mathematics.

81. The Basics of Copyediting for the AMS
1.2.1. First pass.The first pass through a manuscript follows the top and
bottom sections of the checklist (see Figure 1).
(1) Review each element of the top matter and end matter listed in the top
section of the checklist. These elements are illustrated in Figures 2 and
3, and specific style guidance for these elements is given in Chapter 2.
(2) Compare theaccepted manuscript(the version submitted by the jour-
nal editor) against theAMS output; these should match exactly. If
they do not, let the AMS know right away—you may be asked to stop
work on this paper while the differences are resolved.
(3) Check that there are the same number of references and that the ci-
tation styles match: numbered (e.g., [1], [2]), name and year (e.g.,
[Swanson1971]), or alphanumeric abbreviation (e.g., [NH1]).
(4) List the numbered elements in the bottom section of the checklist.
There are two reasons for this:
•to evaluate the internal consistency of the numbering system;
•to create a list for at-a-glance cross-reference checking.
The following questions will help you assess the numbering system:
•Are sections, subsections, or paragraphs numbered together with
theorems, remarks, and equations?
•Does the numbering system run through the paper, or does it
begin anew with each section?
•Are numbered enunciations within similar constructions (e.g., the-
orems, lemmas, and corollaries; see Chapter 4) treated similarly?
With these questions in mind and an understanding of how these ele-
ments should appear, the copy editor is more likely to spot anomalies
in the numbering system that may indicate problems. Each numbered
enunciation is detailed in Chapter 4.
1.2.2. Second pass.Edit and READ the manuscript. This is a sentence-
by-sentence, word-by-word, and character-by-character pass. The AMS uses
theChicago Manual of Style,16th Edition(CMS), as its primary guidance
for grammar and style issues. There are a number of deviations, however,
and they will be described in subsequent chapters.
(1)Mark for AMS style, as needed; see Chapter 12 for details. Check
overall arrangement of text; see Figures 2 and 3.
(2)Check and standardize grammar and spelling. List all decisions on the
style sheet; see Figure 1, center portion.
•Identify the treatment of compound terms—whether they are hy-
phenated, left open, or closed up—for conformity with AMS style
and for consistency within the paper. List these on the style sheet.

1.2. The copyediting process9
•Determine abbreviated words and acronyms to be kept, made con-
sistent, or spelled out at every occurrence. Note on the style sheet
the page on which the acronym or abbreviation was first defined
to ensure that it wasn’t used earlier.
•Note on the style sheet any other stylistic decisions on matters
that can be done in more than one way—for example,ifforif and
only if;for allor∀; references [1, 2, 3] or [1], [2], [3].
•Check overall grammar and English usage for correctness, espe-
cially for foreign authors. Note particular points that require spe-
cial attention.
(3)Check overall mathematical arrangement and notation, and mark as
needed.
•Check that all numbering issues have been resolved or identified.
Check every in-text callout against the list on the numbering sys-
tem portion of the style sheet; e.g., if the author refers to Theorem
2.1(i), be sure it exists in the manuscript.
•Check all mathematical expressions. Have they been handled con-
sistently? Count ALL opening and closing fences within math ex-
pressions as you read along. If any are missing, query the author.
•Note unknown, ambiguous, or confusing symbols. Resolve ambi-
guities if possible; list remaining problems for author query.
•Identify patterns in notation and arrangement, such as the ap-
pearance of script or fraktur letters, use of both italic and roman
variables, or notation used to signal boldface type.
•Note function names to be marked for roman type; see Appen-
dix A.
(4)Check positioning of tables and figures relative to their callouts.
•Ensure a linked callout for every numbered table and figure exists.
–Mark callouts in the right margin. Add a query for the
author if any callouts are missing. This is increasingly im-
portant for hypertext versions of AMS papers.
•Confirm that all table captions appearabovethe table.
–Mark alignment within tables if inconsistent.
–Mark tables for type-size reduction when a table overruns
the margin.
•Confirm that all figure captions appearbelowthe figure.
–Mark all figures that overrun the margins for reduction.
•Review all table and figure captions for consistency and punctua-
tion.
•Ensure that double-numbered figures (e.g., Figure 3.1) fall within
the appropriate section.

101. The Basics of Copyediting for the AMS
(5)Check overall arrangement of text. Check that all lists, subheadings,
algorithms, etc., have been set properly and consistently.
(6)Fix bad line breaks and mark any short or long pages.
(7)Check references. This is described in Chapter 10.
1.2.3. Final pass.Scan the paper again for anything not caught previ-
ously.
1.3. Author queries
No query to an author should sound stupid, naive, or pedantic.
—The Chicago Manual of Style,14th Edition
Ouch. But this is worth keeping in mind.
Writing an effective author query ranges from a simple “OK?” to an
artfully tactful comment about a suggested change. Keep author queries
brief or provide choices.
Where do we draw the line between making an edit and needing to add
a query? The author need not be queried about basic changes to grammar,
punctuation, and hyphenation (e.g., subject-verb agreement problems, in-
sertion of serial commas, spelling variations and errors, hyphenation correc-
tions). Additionally, do not query matters of AMS style (e.g., changing text
in theorems to italics or marking functions to be roman). These are straight-
forward matters and will form the bulk of your copyediting. But when the
answer is less obvious, the author gets to make the decision. Subject-verb
mismatches and unclear antecedents are common problems; occurrences of
repetition are much trickier and require author input or rewrites. Phrasing
the query as a choice among suggested edits is often the best way to get a
response—or a correction. Forming author queries requires good judgement
from the copy editor. See section 2.66 of CMS for a deeper discussion of
queries.
Since the AMS prefers that edits appear in the right margin, it is logical
to place any AMS or author queries in the left margin. Please start each
query with an identifier, “Author:” or “AMS:”, so that each query is dis-
tinct. Author queries will appear in the set of proofs that are sent for the
author’s review.
1.4. Advice we still like
Wisdom consists of knowing when to avoid perfection.
—source unknown

1.4. Advice we still like11
In 1971 Ellen Swanson wrote her original edition ofMathematics into
Type. Even with all the changes in publishing—especially L
A
T
E
X and online
products—her advice below still rings true.
The general rule that covers all decisions is as follows: If it doesn’t hinder
readability and/or it doesn’t look noticeably awkward, just leave as is.
•Sometimes the subject of a sentence is a full math expression containing
amathverb.Example:Asanalgebra,A=RHis the smash product
R#H, and as a coalgebra it is the smash coproduct, that is,

A
(rh)=

(r
1
(r
2
)
−1
h
1
)⊗((r
2
)
0
h
2
).
•Sometimes the verb of a sentence is nestled in a math expression. If
not read correctly, in some cases the sentence will appear to be lack-
ing a verb, but it isn’t.Example: Then dec(F
(
n
)
)≥dec(f) for any
lscf:2
w
→[0,1].
•Long sentences are common and acceptable in math. Long sentences
often contain conditions set off by commas. If read incorrectly, these
sentences don’t seem to make sense, but they do.Example:The
conclusion will follow easily if we can show that ifσ
0
,...,σ
k
∈2
n
,
σ
0

n
···

n
σ
k
, andl≤k, then there areτ
0
,...,τ
k+1
∈2
m
for some
m>nwithτ
j
|n=σ
j
forj≤i,τ
0

m
···

m
τ
k+1
, andτ
i
=τ
i+1
.
•Don’t changesincetobecause.
•Keep the author’s use ofwhichandthat.
•Don’t add commas to a string of adjectives that doesn’t already include
commas, but don’t delete the commas if the author has used them.
Example: nonnegative nonincreasing continuous functions.
•Some authors like commas, and some don’t. Even in nonmathematical
writing, it is becoming more acceptable to not use commas after such
things as introductory adverbial phrases that begin a sentence. If the
author chooses not to use optional commas, leave the manuscript as
is; however, whenever the absence of a comma causes confusion, please
add it. Some authors overdo it with commas, but you should eliminate
only the ones that are clearly in error. We follow theWords into Type
guidance on “open” punctuation:
Open and close punctuation.The termsopen punctua-
tionandclose
1
punctuationare often used with reference to
commas and mean, respectively, using only as much punc-
tuation as is absolutely necessary for clearness, and using
1
Here “close” is pronouncedklose, meaning tight.

121. The Basics of Copyediting for the AMS
as many marks as the grammatical construction will justify.
Close punctuation often results in jerkiness without making
the meaning clearer.
1.5. Miscellaneous hints
•Be careful about subject-verb “mismatches”; sometimes the real sub-
ject of a verb is not apparent.Example: The set of values that lie
along thex-axis...; in this case, we don’t know whether “lie” belongs
to “set” or to “values”, so just stet.
•Questions of various kinds can often be resolved by consulting the orig-
inally accepted manuscript because problems may have been inadver-
tently introduced at the AMS.
•Know the difference between a clause and a phrase; a clause contains
a subject and a verb, whereas a phrase does not contain a finite verb.
(SeeWords into Type, Glossary of Grammatical Terms, page 391.)
•Be aware that spacing between words is created automatically by L
A
T
E
X,
accommodating different factors, and it can be difficult to change man-
ually. For example, there may be a larger-than-usual space between a
section heading and the first words of text if those words can’t be
broken. There is no need to change this space.
1.6. Resources
Important resources that help you discover the unknown and match AMS
style include the following:
•The Chicago Manual of Style, 16th Edition, the standard source on
grammar and style for scholarly work and for things not covered in
this manual;
•Mathematics into Type, still the standard guide for typesetting math-
ematics, contains a lot of rules about editing math—especially how to
break and align equations;
•The Elements of Style(commonly known as “Strunk and
White”), a tiny but comprehensive guide to matters of grammar and
style;
•Words into Type, an older guide to matters of style and grammar,
remains relevant in shaping editorial style;
•The Merriam–Webster Dictionary,adescriptivedictionary, meaning
it describes current usage and word treatment;
•The American Heritage Dictionary,aprescriptivedictionary, meaning
it dictates current accepted usage and word treatment;

1.6. Resources13
•MathSciNet, the database of Mathematical Reviews, can be used for
clarifying or completing reference information, and it is also a good way
to verify the existence and spelling of technical terms (www.ams.org/
mathscinet);
•The L
A
T
E
X companion,thisL
A
T
E
X guide has many useful tables for the
copy editor in search of an unfamiliar symbol;
•a listing of mathematical publishers, with links to them (http://www.
ams.org/msnhtml/serials.pdf);
•university and institution web sites.

Figure 2.An example of a journal page with top matter
elements called out

Chapter 2
Top Matter,
Running Heads,
and End Matter
2.1. Top matter
Top matter elements appear on the first page of an article. Top matter
associated with an AMS journal article includes information that would
appear in a bibliographic reference to the paper, plus dedications, the com-
municating editor, and the abstract. Top matter also includes first-page
unnumbered footnotes: received and revised dates, mathematics subject
classification numbers, key words, and acknowledgments of financial sup-
port. Some elements are required, while others are optional (each element
isdescribedindetailbelow).
2.1.1. Logo—required element.
•The logo appears in a top corner and contains the journal name and
identifying information for the paper.
•The copy editor should check that the journal name is correct and mark
it for correction if different.
2.1.2. Title—required element.
•Only the first word, the first word after a colon, and proper nouns
should be capitalized. The copy editor should note that AMS for-
matting will produce the title in all caps, but this element should be
15

162. Top Matter, Running Heads, and End Matter
marked for proper capitalization since the title is reproduced in upper
and lower case in the contents and in lists for indexing.
•Strong preference is to break before any prepositions, articles, or con-
junctions, or logically within or around phrases. Avoid only one word
on the last line.
:
HYBRIDIZABLE DISCONTINUOUS GALERKIN
AND MIXED FINITE ELEMENT METHODS
FOR ELLIPTIC PROBLEMS ON SURFACES
:
HYBRIDIZABLE DISCONTINUOUS GALERKIN AND
MIXED FINITE ELEMENT
METHODS FOR ELLIPTIC PROBLEMS ON
SURFACES
•Ensure that spelling, hyphenation, en and em dashes, math, and sym-
bols are consistent with the body of the paper. Ensure that math
variables that are lowercase in the text are lowercase in the title.
•Leave acronyms in the title as submitted by the author.
•Footnotes are not allowed in the title.
2.1.3. Authors—required element.
•The author line is centered and follows the title.
•Leave order of author names as submitted. Do not use “et al.” within
the author line—all author names must appear here.
•Insert a space between initials.
v. a. sohinger, notv.a. sohinger
•There is a period after each initial in an abbreviated hyphenated name:
Y.-N. Lee or J.-P. Serre.
•There is a comma before “and” with three authors or more.
author one and author two
author one, author two, and author three
•Footnotes are not allowed in the author line.

2.1. Top matter17
2.1.4. Contributors—optional element.
Contributors are much like authors, but are responsible for only a por-
tion of an article (e.g., an appendix, auxiliary tables). Contributors will
be listed with the author(s) on the first page but will not be included in
running heads; for example,
v. a. sohinger and dan archdeacon,
with an appendix by william rogers
Affiliations provided for contributors will be treated the same as for regular
authors.
2.1.5. Communicating editor—required element for Proceedings.
•This is a required element forProceedings of the AMSonly and appears
below the author line in parentheses. The copy editor should mark this
element to be added if missing.
•AMS style:
(Communicated by Matthew A. Papanikolas)
2.1.6. Dedication—optional element.
•A dedication is typically set below the author line (it follows the com-
municating editor line inProceedings). Text is italic and centered; no
period follows.
•The author’s wording is usually appropriate.
•Wording for dedications in special issues may have been decided upon
by the managing editor, such as in the following example:
This paper is dedicated to John Smith on the occasion of his60th birthday
Often special issues forgo dedication lines in individual papers because
the issue is dedicated to an individual and a separate dedication has
been written for the issue.
2.1.7. Abstract—required element.
Keep in mind when editing that an abstractmust be able to stand
alone, independent of the paper; abstracts appear individually in databases
for indexing services. Abstracts cannot contain references to bibliography
citations or any of the paper’s numbered elements, such as theorems and
equations. There can be unnumbered math displays, multiple paragraphs,
and numbered or bulleted lists.

182. Top Matter, Running Heads, and End Matter
•The text and mathematics of the abstract are treated exactly as in the
body of the paper. Ensure that spelling, hyphenation, and other points
of style are consistent with the paper.
•The use of first-person pronouns in the abstract is acceptable. Do not
reword abstracts to remove the first-person, active voice.
•Cross-references to numbered equations that appear in the body of the
paper should be reworded or replaced with the full equations. Confirm
the change with the author.
•Abstracts cannot have numbered displays. Remove any numbers and
edit any mention of the number in the text as needed.
•The abstract needs to be edited toremoveorrewritereference citations.
Rewrite reference citations by placing the following information within
brackets at the callout point. For journal article references, insert (in
all lightface roman text) the journal abbreviation, volume, year, and
page numbers, but not the article title. For book references, insert the
title, publisher, location of publisher, and year. Onlybook titlesappear
in italics.
Abstract.Matsusaka and Osanai [Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 145 (2017), pp. 1383–1392] give
arithmetic formulas for the coefficients of Hauptmoduln of higher levels as analogues of Kaneko’s
formula for thej-invariant.
Abstract.We study the velocity of travelling waves ofa reaction-diffusion system and show
that it grows like the square root of the diffusivity on the line. This generalizes a result of
Berestycki, Roquejoffre, and Rossi [The influence of a line with fast diffusion on Fisher-KPP
propagation,Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 2014].
Abstract.The main challenge of obtaining the differentiability of the semiflow is to determine
the right type of differentiability andthe right phase space (see V. Andreasen [Semiflows gener-
ated by Lipschitz perturbations of non-densely defined operators, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1989,
pp. 142–151]).
•The copy editor should move footnotes out of the abstract and into
the body of the paper if relevant text is repeated. If not repeated,
include the footnote text within parentheses at the callout. Confirm
the change with the author.
•Acronyms are to be spelled out on first use. If the acronym does
not appear again in the abstract, spell it out and delete the acronym
itself. Acronyms defined in the abstract must be defined again on first
occurrence in the body of the paper.

2.1. Top matter19
•The length of the abstract depends primarily on the length of the paper
itself and on the difficulty of summarizing the material. An upper limit
of about 150 words for short papers and 300 words for long papers is
suggested but generally the AMS does not require a limit.
•Exception: The abstracts in theJournal of the AMSappear only in
the HTML homepages for each article, not in either the online pdf or
print versions. Nevertheless, each abstract must be copyedited and is
located at the end of the article just before the affiliations.
2.1.8. Article contents—optional element.Article contents are useful
in long articles. The AMS limits the items included to numbered section
heads, not numbered subsections. Article contents are located between the
abstract and the start of the text.
2.1.9. Received and revised dates—required element.
•This appears as the first unnumbered footnote at the bottom of the
first page (for translation journals, the received date appears on the last
page following the affiliation(s)—for example, Received 22/MAR/2016).
•Each paper has an original received date and may have one or more
revised dates. All received and revised dates are included, but not the
accepted date.
•AMS style:
Received by the editors [or “editor” for Math. of Comp.] May 23, 2014, and, in revised
form, April 25, 2015, October 15, 2015, and January 12, 2016.
Note the use of commas and not semicolons between dates.
2.1.10. Mathematics Subject Classification—required element.
•This element appears as the second unnumbered footnote and follows
the received date(s).
•The year should reflect the current version of the Mathematics Subject
Classification (MSC) (which is 2010 at this writing).
•At least one primary subject classification number is required. The
author may designate several numbers as primary, with each separated
by a comma. The word “Primary” precedes the numbers.
•Secondary numbers may also be included and are optional. There may
be several secondary numbers, each separated by a comma. The word
“Secondary” precedes these numbers and is separated from the primary
list by a semicolon.

202. Top Matter, Running Heads, and End Matter
•AMS style:
2010Mathematics Subject Classification. Primary 68Q25.
2010Mathematics Subject Classification. Primary 68Q25, 68R10; Secondary 68U05, 68-03,
11Gxx.
•Descriptions of the classification numbers should not be included.
2.1.11. Key words and phrases—optional element.
•This element appears as the third unnumbered footnote and follows
the Mathematics Subject Classification line.
•The first word of the list and any proper nouns are capitalized. All
other items are lowercase and are separated by commas. The list ends
withaperiod.
•Any number of words or phrases may be included.
•Spelling, hyphenation, and other points of style should be consistent
with the paper.
•AMS style:
Key words and phrases. Resolvent estimates,p-adic, Schr ̈odinger equation, unique contin-
uation.
2.1.12. Grant support information—optional element.
•The grant support acknowledgment appears as the last unnumbered
footnote.
•This element contains information about grants or contracts under
which the research was performed and may apply to one or all authors.
•Since footnotes to author names are not permitted, use “The second
author” or “The first-named author” (not the author’s name).
•The past tense should be used.
•Each author may have a support acknowledgment which may appear
as separate footnotes or be combined into one footnote.
•Use of “Number”, “No.”, “number”, “Grant”, “grant”, “Award”,
“award”, “Project”, “project” and similar labels that apply to the
grant/award are acceptable as submitted.
•Acronyms (such as NSF, ERC, EPSRC) are acceptable and do not need
to be spelled out.

2.3. End matter21
•AMS style:
This work was partially supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Coun-
cil of Canada.
The second author was partially supported by NSF grants CCR-9204868 and CCR-9504192.
or
This work was partially supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Coun-
cil of Canada. The second author was partially supported by NSF grants CCR-9204868 and
CCR-9504192.
•Acknowledgment of thanks to colleagues, referees, or institutions should
not appear here. If included, move to Acknowledgment section in the
end matter.
2.1.13. Copyright information—required element.
•This element is set at the bottom right of the first page and is a place-
holder at the copyediting stage. Final copyright information will be
filled in when the paper nears completion in production.
2.2. Running heads
Running heads are derived from top matter elements.
•The right running head contains the title. Shorten the title for the
running head if the full title is too long: it cannot exceed 4 inches (or
24 picas, which is approximately 50 characters including spaces and
punctuation). If unsure of the correct way to shorten the title, query
the author.
•The left running head contains the author name(s) and should appear
as in the byline. If a shortened form is needed for the running head
(which cannot exceed 24 picas or 4 inches), change to initials for the
first and middle names. If still too long, use only the first author’s
name followed by “et al.”; no comma precedes “et al.”.
•All spelling and hyphenation in running heads should correspond ex-
actly to the title and author names.
•Acronyms may be used in running heads, but do not use abbreviated
words.
2.3. End matter
End matter appears at the end of an article and may consist of an acknowl-
edgment section, information about the author(s), the reference section,
author affiliations, and author email and URL addresses. As with the top
matter, some of these elements are optional and some are required.

222. Top Matter, Running Heads, and End Matter
Figure 3.An example of a journal page with end matter
elements called out

2.3. End matter23
2.3.1. Acknowledgment—optional element.
Acknowledgments appear at the end of the text before the References
as an unnumbered section.
1
They include statements of appreciation for
helpful comments or supervision, thanks for programming or typing, or other
similar information. Move any grant support information to the appropriate
first-page footnote.
•The word is spelledAcknowledgment; check it in every paper.
•The head isAcknowledgmentif only one acknowledgment is made and
Acknowledgmentsif more than one acknowledgment is made.
•If the author has numbered the section, the number should be deleted.
•The use of first person plural in Acknowledgments is fine; don’t change
it to third person. However, make the voice parallel.
We thank A. Terhorst for interesting insight. We also thank M. Harpe
for clarifying some imprecise arguments.
The authors acknowledge J. Townsend and S. Lichtman for their as-
sistance at The Courant Institute. The authors also thank Dawn Kujawa
for pointing out an error in the proof of Lemma 1.
The authors acknowledge the help of Dennis Staudinger and Alex
Hands. We also thank T. Setser for valuable comments.
•Generally, the author’s wording should be preserved.
•The use of titles, such as Dr. Iris Murdoch, is acceptable. But other
titles should not be abbreviated: Professor Ferry.
2.3.2. About the author—required element for Bulletin.
•This is a required element for theBulletin of the AMS, which is the only
place it will appear. It appears between the Acknowledgment section
(if included) and the References as an unnumbered section.
•This is a 2–5 sentence blurb about the author(s) of a Research Exposi-
tory article in theBulletin. The first sentence should give the author’s
name and position and research institution. In referencing the author’s
position and institution, we follow the formality of the CMS, sections
8.27 and 8.67. The typical form is two sentences.
1
In theBulletin of the AMSthere is an additional section, About the author, that falls
between the Acknowledgments (if included) and the References.

242. Top Matter, Running Heads, and End Matter
About the author
Misha Gromov is a Permanent Member of IHES and is professor of
mathematics at the Courant Institute of New York University. His many
awards include the Wolf Prize, the Kyoto Prize, and the Abel Prize.
•Multiple authors each get this style of blurb, and they should appear
in the same order as they are listed in their byline. Use the plural form
of “author” if more than one author.
About the authors
Philippe Lauren ̧cot is senior researcher at the Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique and is affiliated with the Institut de Math ́ematiques
de Toulouse, France.
Christoph Walker is professor at the Institut f ̈ur Angewandte Mathe-
matik of the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Universit ̈at Hannover, Germany.
•Upon occasion an author will want to have more information listed.
About the author
Yuval Peres is a principal researcher at Microsoft Research in Redmond,
Washington. He obtained his PhD at Hebrew University, Jersualem, in
1990 and later served on their faculty as well as the faculty at University
of California, Berkeley. He has written more than 250 research papers
in probability, ergodic theory, analysis, and theoretical computer science.
Peres was awarded the Rollo Davidson Prize in 1995, the Lo`eve Prize in
2001, the David P. Robbins Prize in 2011, and was an Invited Speaker at
the 2002 ICM. He is a fellow of the American Mathematical Society and
a foreign associate member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.
2.3.3. Note added in proof—optional element.
•A “Note added in proof” mentions results or sources that have come to
the attention of the author(s) after acceptance of the paper and before
electronic publication. It is usually submitted when the author returns
proofs, so it will not be available to the copy editor.
•The note is the last item before the references.
•Treat the head as an unnumbered section head.
Note added in proof
The text is paragraphed and should be edited to conform to the
style used elsewhere in the paper.

2.3. End matter25
•A note may include new reference citations. These should be set up
like the other text citations (see References below) and the references
should be included in the original reference list.
•If a “Note added in proof” appears in a manuscript, stet.
•Some notes may contain new mathematical content; in this situation
the content should be reviewed by the journal editor.
2.3.4. References—required element.
Please see Chapter 10 for handling references.
2.3.5. Affiliation—required element.
•Author affiliations are set after the reference section and are listed in
the same order as in the author line in the top matter.
•An affiliation is required for every author, and each affiliation appears
separately even if two or more authors have the same affiliation.
•Affiliations for U.S. authors should include the author’s department,
institution, city, state (no abbreviations, i.e., Minnesota, not MN), and
zip code. Acronyms such as INRIA are acceptable; there’s no need to
spell them out.
•If an author has no institutional affiliation, it is acceptable to include
his or her street address.
•For authors outside the U.S., include all information given, making
sure that it includes the author’s institution and country. Spell out
Canadian provinces and territories, such as British Columbia for BC.
Stet the author’s use of United Kingdom, Great Britain, or England.
Spell out People’s Republic of China or add it if missing. (Note that
the Republic of China (ROC) is not the same as the People’s Republic
of China.) Stet the author’s placement of the postal code—before or
after the city—as long as the country is last.
•The AMS prefers “Department of Mathematics” over “Mathematics
Department”.
•AMS style:
Department of Mathematics, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712
Department of Mathematics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T
1Z2, Canada
Institut f ̈ur Statistik,
̈
Okonometrie und Operations Research, Universit ̈atsstrasse 15, Universit ̈at
Graz, A-8010 Graz, Austria
Institute of Applied Mathematics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, People’s Re-
public of China

262. Top Matter, Running Heads, and End Matter
•If an author includes an update to his or her address, leave the affilia-
tion and the address that the author originally provided and follow it
with “Current address:”.
•AMS style:
Institute of Applied Mathematics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, People’s Re-
public of China
Current address: Department of Computer Science, University of Vermont, Burlington, Ver-
mont 05405
2.3.6. Email addresses and author URLs—optional elements.
•Email addresses are optional and appear on a separate line following
the affiliation.
•If an author’s URL is provided, it appears on a separate line following
the email address.
•AMS style:
Central Economics and Mathematical Institute, Moscow, Russia
Email address: kanchelskis@cemi.msk.su
URL: http://www.intertrust.com/star/goldberg
2.3.7. Translator—optional element for translation journals.
•Appears on the last page after the references or affiliations, depending
on the journal style.
•AMS style:
Translated by S. KISLYAKOV
Translated by YOSHIHIRO MIZUTA

Chapter 3
Section
and Subsection Heads
3.1. Heading styles
Section and subsection heads are optional but they almost always appear.
L
A
T
E
X formats them according to AMS style for heading levels. The copy
editor must know the style requirements of the various levels of heads since
any deviation may indicate improper coding. Math is always permissible in
section heads, but displays are not. Any math in any head appears in math
mode; it isnotfonted to match the section head.
•The AMS uses sentence-style capitalization for all headings: the first
letter is capped and the rest are lowercase, unless they are proper
nouns. The exceptions to this are either when the heading contains
more than one sentence or when a colon appears within the heading.
The first letter after either a period or a colon is also capped.
•Section heads are set in caps/small caps font.
3. Results: The discrete Heisenberg group
•Because section heads stand apart from the text, there isnoperiod at
the end.
•The text following a section head has a paragraph indent unless it is
an enunciation.
•A subsection head appears flush left and is part of a paragraph,unless
it precedes another heading or enumerated element. It begins with its
27

283. Section and Subsection Heads
number (if any) in roman type followed by a period. The subsection
title is in bold type and is set in sentence style, with no other letters
capitalized unless they are proper nouns or mathematical items (e.g.,
Theorem 2.1).
2.1.Basic equations and Fredholm’s equations.
Theorem 2.1.[The text continues in paragraph form and italics since
this example is a theorem.]
•A subsection head isalwaysfollowed by a period. The text runs in
(unless what follows is another lower-level head, theorem, remark, or
other item that requires a new paragraph). If the heading does not
match these specs, it is a clue to the copy editor that the spacing is
not being done automatically by L
A
T
E
X. This should be noted for the
compositor to correct throughout the paper.
•If a reference is cited within the section head, it appears at the end
of the subsection head in bold parens andbeforetheperiodinroman
text. Because the reference is a linked citation, it will always appear
in lightface.
1.1.Applications ([1]).
6.5.Stress intensity factors of Theorem 3.7 ([27]).[The text contin-
ues in paragraph form.]
•Section and subsection heads may also contain parenthetical informa-
tion, which should follow sentence-style caps.
3.1.Summary of results (on foliations).[The text continues in para-
graph form.]
•There is a known inconsistency of style that appears between subsection
heads and numbered enunciations (see p. 34). A subsection head will be
all bold, including parens around a citation, which appears in lightface
roman. When a reference appears within a numbered enunciation,
the citation—including its parentheses—outputs as all lightface roman.
The AMS does not correct for this inconsistency.
•A third level of section head, a subsubsection head, is perfectly allow-
able. The subsubsection head has a roman style arabic number and
the title is in italics followed by a period. The text is run in after this
head.

3.2. Numbering29
3.1.1.Basic properties of outerL
p
.[The text continues in paragraph
form.]
•Underscoring is not permitted in any form of section head.
•It is possible for there to be two additional levels of section heads
(paragraph and subparagraph), but these are very unusual and are
more likely to appear in a book than in a journal article.
3.2. Numbering
Check the manuscript for gaps and duplications in numbering. The AMS
allows authors considerable leeway in their numbering systems as long as
the system is consistent and the cross-references are correct. The style and
consistency of any numbering system will become evident as you fill in the
numbering system section of the style sheet.
The AMS uses roman style arabic numerals to number sections 1, 2,
3, etc. Subsections are numbered within their sections, 3.1, 3.2, etc.; and
subsubsections are numbered within their sections and subsections, 3.1.1,
3.1.2, etc.
AMS style for section numbering:
1. The Boolean hypercube
In this section, the Boolean hypercube....
AMS style for subsection numbering:
1.1.Applications.There are a number of useful applications....
AMS style for subsubsection numbering:
1.1.1. Chord diagrams, seeds, and shapes.Recall that the so-called Cata-
lan numbers....
3.2.1. Variations.The following are common variations on this form and
the appropriate changes to make, if any.
•There are parts or other supersections.A very long manuscript
may be divided into parts identified with roman numerals, with num-
bered sections within them. Allow this arrangement to stand.

303. Section and Subsection Heads
•Roman numerals or letters are used.If a paper has numbered
parts, the AMS prefers a capital roman numeral. If sections have roman
numerals, change them to the corresponding arabic numeral.
•The introduction is unnumbered or is numbered 0.Delete the
0 from the head, but otherwise make no changes. Do not renumber
other sections or equations in order to renumber the introduction as 1.
Allow equation numbers (0.1) and other numbering to stand.
•The Acknowledgments section is numbered.Delete the number.
•The Note added in proof section is numbered.Delete the num-
ber.
•The About the author section is numbered.Delete the number.
•The References section is numbered.Delete the number.
3.2.2. Unnumbered section and subsection heads.Authors may use
unnumbered section and subsection heads. The copy editor must check
that each occurrence matches the spacing and font style of its numbered
equivalent. If not, add a note for the compositor to code for the correct
unnumbered section or subsection head as appropriate. Mark the text that
follows a section head with a paragraph indent.
3.3. Text callouts
•Two or more sections are cited in text as “see sections 2.3 and 4.2” or
“see sections 2.3, 4.2, and 4.3”, not as “see section 2.3 and section 2.4”
or “see section 2.3, section 4.2, and section 4.3”, respectively.
•Every section callout must include the word “section”. If the author
cites numbers without identification, determine whether a section or
subsection is being cited and insert the identifier. When in doubt,
query the author.
•If text callouts must be changed, leave a note describing the problem,
and the compositor will manage it.
•AMS style is to spell out “section”, but we will allow “§” if used con-
sistently.

Chapter 4
Enunciations
4.1. Enunciations
Here we get into the “meat and potatoes” of mathematical text—the enun-
ciations. There are four general enunciation categories—theorems, proofs,
definitions, and remarks—which form the basis for all of our enunciation
styles. Most often, these are numbered, in which case we refer to them as
enumerated elements. If an author has very few of these, they sometimes
decline to number them. This is perfectly acceptable, but check to be sure
there aren’t, for example, two unnumbered theorems within a single work.
If any enunciation is displayed in a style that varies from what is de-
scribed below, write the correct category of style in the right margin: e.g.,
an italic “Theorem 3.1” with roman text should be marked for “standard
theorem style” in the right margin. The compositors will make the change.
4.1.1. Theorem style.
•Theorem style includes the following enunciations:
Theorem heading: title and numberbold. Theorem text:italic
Algorithm
a
CorollaryProposition
Assertion
CriterionReduction
Axiom
HypothesisSublemma
Conjecture
LemmaTheorem
a
Algorithms are often coded similarly to theorems, but those that are displays of
computing algorithms take a different style; see the examples in the final subsection
in this chapter (p. 35).
31

324. Enunciations
•Theorem-style enunciations are set flush left with a 10pt bold name and
number, the text is italic, and there is white space above and below.
AMS style:
Theorem 3.1.Let(M, ω)be a symplectic2n-dimensional manifold. Near
each pointx
0
∈Mthere are coordinates(x
1
,y
1
,...,x
n
,y
n
)in whichω=

n
i=1
dx
i
∧dy
i
.
•Spell out numbered theorem-style enunciations in full (e.g., Theorem
2.1) since they are proper nouns. Abbreviated forms (e.g., Thm. 2.1)
are not allowed except when cited as part of a reference (e.g., [11, Thm.
2.1]).
4.1.2. Proof style.
•Proof style includes the following enunciations:
Heading: titleitalicand number roman (if any). Text: roman
ProofSubproof
•Proof-style eunuciations are set flush left with a 10pt italic name, usu-
ally unnumbered (but roman numbers if required), the text is roman,
and there is white space above and below. Proofs commonly end with
an open square box (a QED box), which is flush right at the end of the
last line of the proof. The QED box may land flush right on a separate
line if it follows a full line of text, a display, or a list.Mark for the box
to be moved up a line only when it follows a list and there is room at
the end of the last line.AMSstyle:
Correct:
Proof. Claim 3.3 is again a local question, so we may assume thatMis
the common zero set ofr=N−nreal polynomials.
Correct:
Proof.L(p) can be generated byv
1
(p),...,v
k
(p). Since eachv
j
(p)de-
pends continuously onp, choosing a small neighborhoodVofpthe vectors
v
1
(p

),...,v
k
(p

) are independent also forp

∈V, hence dim
R
L(p

)≥0.

Correct:
Proof. Then a straightforward computation shows that
η
(m)
(α)=
n
α−l+1
l!
min(l−1,m)

k=0

m
k

w
(k)
l
(α)(logn)
m−k
.


4.1. Enunciations33
Incorrect:
Proof.
(1) Initialization: set the initial approximationc
0
as ans-sparse lower
vector, e.g.,c
0
=0.
(2) Iteration: repeat until a stopping criterion is met atn=
n.

4.1.3. Definition style.
•Definition style includes the following enunciations:
Heading: title and numberbold.Text:roman
AffirmationDiscussionProperty
Application
ExampleQuestion
Assumption
ExerciseScholium
Condition
FactTerminology
Convention
Model
DefinitionProblem
•Definition-style enunciations are set flush left with a 10pt bold name
and number, the text is roman, and there is white space above and
below. AMS style:
Definition 3.2.Areal algebraic setis the common zero set of a collection
of polynomialsX:=

x:f
1
(x)=···=f
r
(x)=0

⊂R
N
.
•Spell out numbered definition-style enunciations in full (e.g., Definition
2.1) since they are proper nouns. Abbreviated forms (e.g., Def. 2.1)
are not allowed except when cited as part of a reference (e.g., [11, Def.
2.1]).
4.1.4. Remark style.
•Remark style includes the following enunciations:
Heading: titleitalicand number roman. Text: roman
AnswerConclusionSubcase
Base
NoteStep
Case
NotationSummary
Claim
Observation
CommentRemark

344. Enunciations
•Remark-style enunciations are set flush left with a 10pt italic name and
roman number, the text is roman, and there is white space above and
below. AMS style:
Remark3.3. Besides the infinitely many cases of two-bridge knots listed
in Theorem 1.2, explicit calculations seem to confirm Theorem 1.1.
•Spell out numbered remark-style enunciations in full (e.g., Remark 2.1)
since they are proper nouns. Abbreviated forms (e.g., Rem. 2.1) are
not allowed except when cited as part of a reference (e.g., [11, Rem.
2.1]).
4.1.5. Upwardly mobile style.Typically, only theorem-style enuncia-
tions carry proofs. If an enunciation that belongs to a different category
carries a proof (e.g., a claim may carry a proof, which is acceptable), the
enunciation may need to be changed to theorem style. In such an instance,
please note this for further review.
4.1.6. Parenthetical text within subsections and numbered enun-
ciations.There is a known inconsistency of style that appears between
subsection heads and numbered enunciations, which are similar in appear-
ance. A subsection head will be all bold, including parenthetical text. When
a reference appears within a numbered enunciation, the citation—including
its parentheses—outputs as all lightface roman.
2.1.Carleson embeddings (Schuyler,[7]).The variational . . .
Lemma 2.2(Hamilton and Burr, [7]).Letγ:Z
d
→R...
The AMS copy editor should circle parenthetical text that does not
conform to the example above (Lemma 2.2) within a numbered enuncia-
tion only, and write “XTRA” in the right margin. The compositor will
understand that this a specific coding instruction for handling parentheti-
cal information in a numbered enunciation. Stet bold parenthetical text in
subsection heads (as shown in 2.1 in the example above).
4.1.7. Variants for algorithm style.If an algorithm appears in text
and it is a mathematical item, it is coded as a theorem style enunciation.
However, if it is part of computer code, it appears in a different format.

4.1. Enunciations35
Example of theorem style:
Algorithm 1.1(Iterative hard thresholding on lower sets).
(1)Initialization:set the initial approximationc
0
=0.
(2)Iteration:repeat until a stopping criterion is met atn=
n:
c
n+1
=H

s
(c
n
+A
∗
(
̃
g−Ac
n
)).
(3)Output:c
#
=c
n
,andg
#
=

ν∈H
s
c
#
ν
Ψ
ν
.
Example of computer code:
Algorithm 1FlipLinkage
Input:k
1
,k
2
∈Ksuch that pp(k
1
)=pp(k
2
) and pp(k
1
),pp(k
2
)∈C\R.
Output:(G, ρ) a flip linkage.
1:DefineV={1,2,3,4}andE={(1,2),(2,3),(3,4),(1,4)}and setG=
(V, E).
2:Defineu
i
=χk
i
for alli∈{1,...,4}.
3:Define
ρ(1,3) =

R(u
1
),I(u
1
)

ρ(2,1) =

R(u
2
),I(u
2
)

ρ(3,4) =

R(u
3
),I(u
3
)

ρ(4,2) =

R(u
4
),I(u
4
)

4:Return(G, ρ).
Please familiarize yourself with these styles. Many times an enunciation
that does not match the style of the journal is an indication that the author
has hard coded it, which can cause problems with linking later in the process.
If you see any deviation from AMS style, please mark it in the right margin.

Chapter 5
Footnotes
L
A
T
E
X very reliably sets footnotes at the bottom of the page where the
footnote marker appears.
1
Here is a list of characteristics for AMS style
footnotes.
•A footnote is located at the bottom of the page on which its callout
appears, separated from the body of the paper by a 5pc wide rule.
•A text footnote is set in 8pt CM type. It begins with a paragraph
indent and a superscript arabic number, and it ends with a period.
•Text footnotes are numbered with consecutive superscript arabic num-
bers. If the author has used asterisks, daggers, etc., let it stand if all
cross-references and coding are OK.
•A footnote callout is placed after the word or phrase to which it refers,
or it is placed after internal and end punctuation. AMS style:
We denote the vertical deflection,
2
of the elastic plate at position
(ˆx,ˆy)∈

D....
The previously cited thesis,
3
elaborated upon by Vaughan and Young,
presents an extended discussion of this idea.
4
•If the author has cited a footnote within a mathematical expression, the
callout could cause confusion with superscripts. If a footnote symbol
can be mistaken for a mathematically pertinent superscript, alleviate
1
Here is a handy example.
37

385. Footnotes
the ambiguity in one of the following ways:
(a) Move the callout to the end of the text preceding the displayed
mathematics.
(b) Rewrite the sentence so that the footnote marker is presented
in an unambiguous position. (This requires an author query.)
•Equations and other mathematical material in footnotes are allowed.
Set these as compactly as possible; avoid displays or lists within a foot-
note when possible. The following examples show the same footnote
set three ways.
:
5
To see the equivalence, assume thatμ[r(x)>l
k
]<c/l.Letε=
1
2k
. Then, for all
l∈R
+
,μ[r
ε
(x)>l]<c/l
2
,and so
∑
x
r
ε
μ(x)≤
∞
∑
n=1
nμ[n−1<r
ε
(x)≤n]=
∞
∑
n=0
μ[r
ε
(x)>n]<∞.
The example above shows the maximum compaction of this footnote; cf.
theexample below.
ok:
5
To see the equivalence, assume thatμ[r(x)>l
k
]<c/l.Letε=
1
2k
. Then, for all
l∈R
+
,
μ[r
ε
(x)>l]<c/l
2
,
and so
∑
x
r
ε
μ(x)≤
∞
∑
n=1
nμ[n−1<r
ε
(x)≤n]=
∞
∑
n=0
μ[r
ε
(x)>n]<∞.
The example above shows how displays can be distracting within a foot-
note; cf. theexample above.
:
5
To see the equivalence, assume thatμ[r(x)>l
k
]<c/l.Letε=
1
2k
. Then,
for alll∈R
+
,μ[r
ε
(x)>l]<c/l
2
,and so
∑
x
r
ε
μ(x)≤
∑
∞
n=1
nμ[n−1<
r
ε
(x)≤n]=
∑
∞
n=0
μ[r
ε
(x)>n]<∞.
This last example is wrong because the second line contains an unaccept-
able linebreak within the in-text mathematics; see Chapter 13.
•If a footnote is actually a reference, move it to the References section
and replace the footnote citation with a reference citation.
•Reference citations are allowed in footnotes.

Chapter 6
Lists
6.1. Numbering
Any consistent, unambiguous system of item identifiers is acceptable, in-
cluding arabic numbers, uppercase or lowercase roman numerals (1, I, i),
uppercase or lowercase letters (A, a), lowercase Greek letters (α, β), or a
combination of bullets, en dashes, and asterisks (•,–,*).
•Paragraph-style lists are indented with the author’s choice of identifier
and they fit into standard text margins. These can also be multipara-
graph items.
•When working within the enumerate environment, the copy editor
should enclose the identifying numbers or letters in a complete set
of parentheses.
–The first-level list uses numbers as thedefaultwithin the enumer-
ate environment: (1), (2), (3), etc.
–The second-level list (default) uses lowercase letters: (a), (b), (c),
etc.
–The third-level list (default) uses lowercase roman numerals: (i),
(ii), (iii), etc.
The AMS will accept variations as long as they are consistent. This
style of list is being coded for linked cross-references with increasing
frequency.
•When working within the itemize environment, the copy editor should
use the default item identifiers—that is, bullet (•) at the first level and
then the en dash (–) at the second level. This type of list does not
typically have linked cross-references.
39

406. Lists
•Ambiguity can arise if the author included several lists with repeated
numbering, which isnotan unusual scenario. In this case add qualify-
ing callouts, e.g., change “as in item (1)” to “as in item (1) in section
2.2”. Query the author to notify him or her about the change.
•Item numbering within enunciations and their proofs should have the
same item identifiers whenever they are referenced.
Lemma 3.7.The following hold:
(1) (Φ
∗
t
f
i
)(x)−

j
a
t
ij
(x)f
j
(x),x∈X
U
,t∈(o,1],1≤i≤n....
(2)The limit ast→0ofΦ
t
acting on thef
i
,....
Proof.For (1) we compute that. . . .
•Identifiers are lightface, never bold.
6.2. Type style and arrangement
The AMS allows authors great latitude in formatting lists. The corrections
we insist upon include parallel construction of the list items, a unified ap-
proach to any single list (all enumerated items or all itemized items), and
no internal sentences within lists that continue from a single sentence.
•Ensure that items within a list are parallel.All phrases or all
complete sentences should have parallel construction. They should
follow in a logical pattern from the sentence above it; see section 6.5.
•Stet lists set within a paragraph if the items are short. Break out longer
items into a formatted list. In the following example the items are run
in since each is short. They could have been separated into a vertical
list, but since the author did it this way, we would stet it. (Note the
colon, semicolons, and lowercase or math at the start of each item.)
It is convenient to split this into three regions: (1) Region A,n,[n/2];
(2) Region B, [n/3]; (3) Region C, [n/(3·2)],...,[n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
)].
•In an enumerated environment the default format is to indent the iden-
tifier, then, after a quad of space, the text follows in a hanging indent
format. The following is an example of a list breaking out a single
sentence.
It is convenient to split it into three regions:
Region1.n,n/2.
Region2.n/3.
Region3.n/(3·2),...,n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
),....
In Region 1,b
i+1
is eithernorn/2; that is,i=lb−1ori=lb−2.

6.4. Text callouts41
•The indentation for lists is slightly greater than for a paragraph indent
and will not exactly match a paragraph indent.
•Do not mark to run a list item into the text above it. AMS style is to
stet the following arrangement:
:
Theorem 1.
(a)The approximantHin Theorem2is obtained by takingS=0.
(b)If we takeS=0,then we obtainH=n.
•If the first item of a hanging indent list (see sections 6.5.2–6.5.4) is
run in after a heading, mark it to start a new line. When left as
displayed below, linking does not work. (Note that this is not an issue
for paragraph style lists; see section 6.5.1.)
:
Theorem 1.(a)The approximantHin Theorem2is obtained by
takingS=0.
(b)If we takeS=0,then we obtainH=n.
•If the author used “and” or “or” before the last entry in a series, stet
it. Do not add “and” or “or”, however.
•List items may complete an introductory sentence; see section 6.5.5.
•Subitems are indented from the main items; see sections 6.1 and 6.5.
•Equation numbers for displayed math in indented text fall at the left
margin.
6.3. Punctuation and capitalization
•Every entry must be punctuated (see section 6.5).
•Only those entries that are complete sentences are capitalized; phrases
are lowercase (see section 6.5.4).
6.4. Text callouts
•Identifying letters ((a), (b), (c)), including their parentheses, are ro-
man in all text. The AMS will allow italic identifying letters only if
consistent throughout.
•Listed items are usually cited with reference to the enunciations to
which they belong: Theorem 3(b) refers to item (b) in a list within
Theorem 3.

426. Lists
6.5. List examples
6.5.1. Numbered in paragraph style.These fall within standard text
margins with paragraph indent and are numbered as the author chooses.
...Then the following hold:
(1) Our definition should be essentially the same as Levin’s notion when
we apply it to polynomial time-bounds.
(2) IfLbelongs to DTIME(T(n)) for some time-boundT,thenany
distributional problem (L, μ)isTon theμ-average.
(3) IfLis not in DTIME(T(n)) almost everywhere, then for any disti-
butional problem (L, μ),Lis notTon theμ-average.
6.5.2. Numbered with hanging indents.Enumerated text with hang-
ing indents should be introduced by a complete sentence followed by a colon.
...Then the following hold:
(1) There exists a dense open subsetV(k)⊂|L|
d−1
such that for any
(D
1
,...,D
d−1
)∈V(k),C:=D
1
∩···∩D
d−1
is an irreducible pro-
jective non-singular curve contained inU.
(2) Furthermore, letU

be as in (2). Take anyx∈U

(k). Then for any
proper closed subsetWofX,thereexistsa(D
1
,...,D
d−1
)∈V
x
(k)
such that Supp(D
1
∩···∩D
d−1
)W.
6.5.3. Bulleted with hanging indents.Itemized lists with hanging in-
dents are introduced by a complete sentence followed by a colon.
In this text we examine the following:
•For eachP-time function ensemblef:{0,1}
t
n
→{0,1}
l
n
that in-
stantiates primitive 1,g
(f)
:{0,1}
t

n
→{0,1}
l

n
instantiates primitive
2.
•g
(f)
is aP-time function ensemble, and on inputs of lengtht

n
, it only
makes calls tofon inputs of lengtht
n
.
•LetD
1
:{0,1}
n
andD
2
:{0,1}
n
be not necessarily independent
probability ensembles; letD=D
1
,D
2
. A probability ensemble
E:{0,1}
2nk
n
,withE=E
1
,E
2
, satisfies the following:
–For every valueE
1
∈{0,1}
nk
n
such that Pr
E
1
[E
1
]>0,
H
Ren
(E
2
|E
1
=E
1
)≥k
n
H(D
2
|D
1
)−nk
2/3
n
.
–L
1
(E,D
k
n
)≤2
−k
1/3
n
.

6.5. List examples43
6.5.4. Lowercase roman numerals with hanging indents.These are
enumerated lists that have been coded to begin with a roman numeral. The
same rules as for section 6.5.2 apply.
Then we can describeGas follows:
(i) a description of this discussion inO(1) bits;
(ii) the enumeration of all labels in at mostn
2
/32 (by assumption);
(iii) a description of then/2 nodes in this enumeration in at mostnbits;
(iv) the interconnection patterns of thesen/2nodesinn/8−3lognplus
n/2+o(n) bits each (by assumption and using Claim 2.1); this
amounts ton/2(5n/8−3logn)+o(n
2
) bits in total with separations
encoded in anothernlognbits.
6.5.5. Items continuing from introductory sentence.(Please note
that there is no colon at the end of the introductory sentences below. The
majority of guidance recommends against this form. However, the AMS has
noticed a growing trend in this particular usage, so the AMS will allow it if
handled consistently.)
Putting together the results in this section, we have
•a reduction from a one-way permutation to a pseudorandom genera-
tor (from subsection 4.2);
•a reduction from a one-to-one one-way function to a pseudorandom
generator (combining subsections 4.3 and 4.6);
•a reduction from a pseudorandom generator to a pseudorandom gen-
erator (from subsection 4.6).
The connected graphGis built by
(1) committing all uncommitted edges, as described above;
(2) joining the remaining open entry vertices with some number, Δ, of
extra vertices so as to makeGhavenvertices and bed-regular; and
(3) designating one of these extra vertices ast.
•LetD:{0,1}
n
be a probability ensemble. There is a probability
ensembleE:{0,1}
nk
n
satisfying
–H
Ren
(E)≥k
n
H(D)−nk
2/3
n
,
–L
1
(E,D
k
n
)≤2
−k
1/3
n
.

446. Lists
6.5.6. Complex items following an introductory sentence.
:
...If (A1) and (A2) are satisfied whereω−β>0, then the following
apply:
(i) For eachp

>0 andT>0 the following inequalities are satisfied:
(1)sup
α∈A
sup
u∈U
E
α
x,u

sup
0≤t≤T
|X(t)|
2p


≤C
T
|x|
2p

+
̃
C
T
and
(2)sup
t∈R
+
sup
α∈A
sup
u∈U
E
α
x,u
[|X(t)|
2p

]≤C
1
|x|
2p

+C
2
(ii) For eachx∈H,α∈A, andu∈Uthe following inequality is satisfied:
(3)lim sup
t→∞
1
t

t
0
|X(s)|
2
ds <∞a.s.P
α
x,u
This is categorized as a bad example because the AMS style preference is to
let the mathematics flow through the sentence rather than stop the sentence
for the mathematics. Specifically, compare the sentences following items (i)
and (ii) above and below.
:
...If (A1) and (A2) are satisfied whereω−β>0, then the following
apply:
(i) For eachp

>0 andT>0 the inequalities
(4)sup
α∈A
sup
u∈U
E
α
x,u

sup
0≤t≤T
|X(t)|
2p


≤C
T
|x|
2p

+
̃
C
T
and
(5)sup
t∈R
+
sup
α∈A
sup
u∈U
E
α
x,u
[|X(t)|
2p

]≤C
1
|x|
2p

+C
2
are satisfied.
(ii) For eachx∈H,α∈A, andu∈Uthe inequality
(6)lim sup
t→∞
1
t

t
0
|X(s)|
2
ds <∞a.s.P
α
x,u
is satisfied.

Chapter 7
Figures
Much figure work will be done outside of the copyediting cycle; however,
numbering, cross-references, and caption placement and punctuation all
need to be reviewed for consistency. The AMS allows authors very wide
latitude on wording their captions, and parallel construction is not strictly
required (though it isalwayspreferred).
Because the AMS production system has to handle graphics generated
by many different software packages, the occasional misread occurs. For
this reason,the copy editor must carefully proofread the figures in
the AMS copy against the author’s original submission. If there are
differences, flag them for the AMS to resolve.
In AMS journals, it is standard practice for figures to appear in color
online but black and white in print. At the time of this writing,the online
version is the journal of record. For the copy editor, this means that text
references to any colors appearing in a figure are acceptable.
Allnumberedfigures must carry an in-text callout so that each figure
will be linked to the text in the online version. If a numbered figure has
no cross-reference, please either add it if its location is clear or query the
author about where the cross-reference should go.
7.1. Numbering
Figure numbers follow the same rules as described in section 3.2, but AMS’s
strong preference is that figures should be numbered independently of other
numbered enunciations, including tables. Please note that the AMS does not
use hyphens in section-numbered figures (e.g., Figure 7-1 is not acceptable).
45

467. Figures
Figures may either be numbered consecutively throughout the paper or
be numbered within sections, regardless of whether other numbered enun-
ciations have section numbers. If there are just a few figures, it is perfectly
acceptable to allow figure numbering to run consecutively through the paper
without reference to the section numbers.
Figure numbering may require adjustment for several reasons.
•Any gaps or duplications in numbering must be edited to be in se-
quence, and any missing or incorrect in-text callouts must be added or
corrected, respectively.
•Complex mathematical displays are common in AMS journals and
should not be relabeled as figures. The exception to this rule is when
a figure must be set in a landscape orientation; see Figures 7 and 8.
•The author may have numbered a table as a figure. Relabel and renum-
ber these tables, and reposition their captions appropriately.
•Section-numbered figures (e.g., 1.2, 3.5) should appear within the ap-
propriate section—Figure 4.8 falls within section 4, for example. If it
cannot fit within the same section, it must appear on a facing page.
Note this for the compositor.
7.2. Captions
A caption consists of two parts—the numbered enunciation and any text
that follows it. The default spec for captions is 24 pica maximum width
set in 10 point CM font (the same size as the text). Figure captions always
appearcentered underthe figure.
If a caption appears in smaller type than that used for the text, flag it
for the compositor to restore to default values.
•The numbered enunciation appears in caps and small caps font, e.g.,
Figure 7.
•The caption text is roman and in sentence style (never headline style).
•End punctuation is only required when a caption is a full sentence and
not for short descriptive phrases. However, if the author has added a
period to all short descriptive phrases, please follow the author’s lead
and make it consistent.
A figure may have multiple parts. Each part of a figure should be labeled
logically and unambiguously. If the author has included the label within the
image, then leave it as is. If a label has to be added, it can appear to the left
of a horizontal row of figures (if it is labeling the full row) or centered under
the image if it labels what appears above, e.g., (a), (b), (c); see Figures 5
and 6 (p. 50).

7.3. Permissions47
7.3. Permissions
Occasionally authors reprint figures from other sources. The author is re-
sponsible for obtaining a letter from the copyright holder (typically the
publisher of the original book or journal) that grants permission to reprint
the figure. A permission line must be added to the caption, giving credit
to the original source. If publishers request specific wording for these lines,
the wording is given in the permission letter and must be used verbatim. If
no specific wording is requested, the permission statement takes the form
“Reprinted with permission from XYZ” or “courtesy of XYZ, used with
permission”, where “XYZ” refers to the copyright owner. (This may be an
individual, a publication, a publisher, a library collection, a university, an
agency, etc.)
If you suspect a figure has been borrowed from another source but there
is no permission letter, query the author and inform the AMS. The author
or the publisher may have to request permission.
The copy editor’s read of the paper also functions as a “safety
net” for catching missing permissions. Please be vigilant about
any hints within the text or captions that would indicate out-
standing permissions issues.
Examples of what to look for as “hints” include (but are not limited
to) a mention of thanks to someone other than the author(s), clear visual
inconsistency between the figure in question and others appearing in the
paper, etc.
The following captions are examples of two permissions statements. The
images are not included—you know, permissions issues!
Figure 12.The moduli spaceH
2
/P SL(2,Z) (courtesy of Car-
los Matheus, used with permission)
Figure 13.Hofstadter’s butterfly. Reprinted with permission
as follows: Douglas R. Hofstadter,Energy levels and wave func-
tions of Block electrons in rational and irrational magnetic fields,
American Physical Review B14(1976), 2239–2249. Copyright
1976, American Physical Society.

487. Figures
7.4. Figure placement and text callouts
When an author’s original manuscript is run through the AMS production
system, figure placement may change. As part of the initial review of any
manuscript with figures, the copy editor should mark in the AMS output
theoriginallocation of each repositioned figure. Any problems this may
cause during paging will be addressed by the compositor.
•Figures should always be cited in full (e.g., Figure 3) as the AMS treats
them as proper nouns. Abbreviated forms (e.g., Fig. 3) are not allowed.
(This is a break with CMS guidance.)
•In-text callouts to multipart figures should appear as, e.g., “Figure
3.4(a)” with no space between the figure number and the figure part
number.
•In-text callouts tonumberedfigures appearing as, e.g., “in the figure
above” or “in the figure below” must be changed to, e.g., “in Figure
3.4”.
•All figures should be listed in the Numbering System portion of the
style sheet, and the copy editor should check off each one as it is called
out in the text.
•If a numbered figure is not cited in the manuscript, insert a callout for
it when its location is obvious and flag it for the author. If the location
for the callout is not obvious, query the author for the appropriate
location.
•Numberedfigures may appear at the top, bottom, or middle
of a page, but they never appearmidparagraphin the middle of a
page. (This rule does not apply when figures appear at the top or
bottom of a page since paragraphs often break across pages.)
•Unnumberedfigures may appear within sentences or midpara-
graph. These are part of the surrounding text and cannot be separated
out. Leave a note for the compositor that they have to stay where they
are.
7.5. Sizing and altering figures
The copy editor’s role in sizing figures is limited. Sizing figures at this stage
should only be to ensure they fit within the text block (a maximum of 30
picas wide by 45.5 picas long with a one-line caption). Figures may be
altered at a later stage to accommodate paging, so sizing now is not final.
Figures are proofread against the author’s original manuscript, and any
obvious problems in figures should be flagged. “Obvious problems” include
such things as any text within the figure that has moved from where it

7.7. Some examples49
appeared in the author’s original figure, text or caption references to colors
that do not match the figure, type that has disappeared, etc. For any such
inconsistencies leave a query for the author and the AMS.
7.6. Landscape figures
This is an unusual item. The AMS strongly prefers to reset a figure in a
portrait orientation whenever possible. However, sometimes figures simply
will not shrink for our convenience, and they must be set landscape. Figures
7 and 8 (p. 51) are just two examples of figures that could not be reduced
to fit.
In order to set a figure landscape, it must appear on a separate page
from the text. For this reason, the positioning of landscape figures is more
approximate. The copy editor should note where landscape items fell in the
original manuscript, and the compositor will place them as close as possible
to that original position.
7.7. Some examples
Here are some standard examples.
01
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
0.20.10.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9
Figure 4.Thresholds forδ∈(0,1) from top to bottom:
ρ
+
W
(solid blue),ρ
±
W
(dashed blue),ρ
+
S
(solid red),ρ
±
S
(dashed
red).

507. Figures
(a)(b)
Figure 5.FunctionsF(C, β) andF(C;β, a).a=0.2on
the left plot.
Figure 6.Three examples of the one-DOF folding motion
of Design Method 5. (a) An origami sheet of Figure 5(a).
(b) An origami sheet for a triangular spiral tiling of Figure
2(c). (c) An origami sheet of a spiral multiple tiling by right
triangles with the angles 30
◦
,60
◦
, and 90
◦
.

7.7. Some examples51
1

2


3

4

1111







0110








1121








0111








0010








0001

1110














1221















1231















1232















0121















0011








1100







2







1220







2








2342







2








1342







2








1242







2








0122








1000







0100








1120








1222








0120








1122








Figure 7.
Type
F
4
,Case1
1


2

3

4

0111







1110








0121








1111








0010








0001

0110














1221















1231















1232















1121















0011








0100







2







1220







2








1342







2








2342







2








1242







2








1122















1100







0120








1222








1120








0122








1000

Figure 8.
Type
F
4
,Case2

Chapter 8
Tables
When authors submit their L
A
T
E
X files for publication, the tables have been
coded. Their numbering, cross-references, and caption placement and punc-
tuation all need to be reviewed for style consistency. When reading the text,
the copy editor should compare the terms in the tables against how those
same terms are used in the text and mark for consistency.
The AMS allows authors very wide latitude on wording their captions:
these captions can be a simple table number or a more lengthy explanation
of the data within and the methods used to compile it. Other than placing
captions at the top of all tables and sizing wide tables to fit within the text
block, we do not enforce any other specs on table format.
Author-coded tables run through the AMS production system are gen-
erally stable, but misreads occur once in a while. For this reasonthe copy
editor must compare each table in the AMS copy against the au-
thor’s original submission. This is just a quick comparison of the two
versions for obvious errors (e.g., table elements appearing in the wrong col-
umn). If any are found, note it for the compositor and include the location
of the table in the original manuscript.
Tables are generally placed near where they are first cited, but occasion-
ally very long tables may appear near the end of an article, though always
before the references. Tables that are extremely long (over 10 pages) can be
put online and referenced by a linked URL. These tables are the responsi-
bility of the author, and the copy editor should only confirm that the link
is correct.
Allnumberedtables must carry an in-text callout so that each table
will be linked to the text in the online version. If a numbered table has no
53

548. Tables
cross-reference, please either add it or query the author about where the
cross-reference should go.
8.1. Numbering
Table numbers follow the same rules as described in section 3.2, but AMS’s
strong preference is that tables should be numbered independently of other
numbered enunciations, including figures. Please note the the AMS does not
use hyphens in section-numbered tables (e.g., Table 8-1 is not acceptable).
Tables may either be numbered consecutively throughout the paper or
be numbered within sections, regardless of whether other numbered enun-
ciations have section numbers. If there are just a few tables, it is perfectly
acceptable to allow table numbering to run consecutively through the paper
without reference to the section numbers.
Table numbering may require adjustment for several reasons.
•Any gaps or duplications in numbering must be edited to be in se-
quence, and any missing or incorrect in-text callouts must be added or
corrected, respectively.
•The author may have numbered a table as a figure. Relabel and renum-
ber these impostors, and reposition their captions appropriately.
•Section-numbered tables (e.g., 1.2, 3.5) should appear within the ap-
propriate section—Table 4.8 falls within section 4, for example. If it
cannot fit within the same section, it must appear on a facing page.
Note this for the compositor.
•Extremely long tables that break across pages must be numbered, if
they are not already.
•If there is no text callout, insert one if its location is obvious or query
the author about where the cross-reference should go.
•Tables numbered with roman numerals or letters should be left as is.
8.2. Captions
A caption consists of two parts—the numbered enunciation and any text
that follows it. The default spec for captions is 24 pica maximum width
set in 10 point CM font (the same size as the text). Table captions always
appearcentered abovethe table. If a caption appears in smaller type than
that used for the text, flag it for the compositor to restore to default values.
•The numbered enunciation appears in caps and small caps font, e.g.,
Table 7.
•The caption text is roman and in sentence style (never headline style).

8.4. Table placement and text callouts55
•End punctuation is only required when a caption is a full sentence and
not for short descriptive phrases. However, if the author has added a
period to all short descriptive phrases, please follow the author’s lead
and make it consistent.
8.3. Permissions
Occasionally authors reprint tables from other sources. The author is re-
sponsible for obtaining permission from the copyright holder (typically a
letter or email from the publisher of the original) that grants certain pub-
lishing rights to the AMS. A permission line must be added to the caption,
giving credit to the original source. If publishers request specific wording for
these lines, the wording is given in the permission letter and must be used
verbatim. If no specific wording is requested, the permission statement takes
the form “Reprinted with permission from XYZ” or “courtesy of XYZ, used
with permission”, where “XYZ” refers to the copyright owner. (This may be
an individual, a publication, a publisher, a library collection, a university,
an agency, etc.) Two examples from figure captions are given on p. 47.
If you suspect a table has been borrowed from another source but there
is no permission letter, query the author and inform the AMS. The author
or the publisher may have to request permission.
The copy editor’s read of the paper also functions as a “safety
net” for catching missing permissions. Please be vigilant about
any hints within the text or captions that would indicate out-
standing permissions issues.
Examples of what to look for as “hints” include (but are not limited
to) a mention of thanks to someone other than the authors, clear visual
inconsistency between the table in question and any others appearing in the
paper, etc.
8.4. Table placement and text callouts
When an author’s original manuscript is run through the AMS production
system, table placement may change. As part of the initial review of any
manuscript with tables, the copy editor should mark in the AMS output the
originallocation of each repositioned table. Any problems this may cause
during paging will be addressed by the compositor.
•Tables should always be cited in full (e.g., Table 3) as they are proper
nouns. Abbreviated forms (e.g., Tab. 3) are not allowed. (This is a
break with CMS guidance.)
•In-text callouts tonumberedtables appearing as, e.g., “in the table
above” or “in the table below” must be changed to, e.g., “in Table 3.4”.

568. Tables
•All tables should be listed in the Numbering System portion of the
style sheet, and the copy editor should check off each one as it is called
out in the text.
•If a numbered table is not cited in the manuscript, insert a callout for it
when its location is obvious, and flag it for the author. If the location
for the callout is not obvious, query the author for the appropriate
location.
•Text within a table should be edited to conform to usage within the
paper.
•Numberedtables may appear at the top, bottom, or middle of
apage, but they never appearmidparagraphin the middle of a page.
(This rule does not apply when tables appear at the top or bottom of
a page since paragraphs often break across pages.)
•Smallunnumberedtables may appear within paragraphs.If
these are part of the surrounding text and cannot be separated out,
leave them where they fall, and also leave a note for the compositor
that the table must remain where it is.
8.5. Sizing and altering tables
Sizing tables at this stage should only be to ensure they fit within the text
block (a maximum of 30 picas wide by 45.5 picas long with a one-line cap-
tion). This may involve point size reduction of the table; please leave a note
for the compositor to fit the table within the margins. Tables may be further
altered or broken across pages at a later stage to accommodate paging, so
sizing now is not final.
Tables are reviewed against the author’s original manuscript, and
any obvious problems in tables should be flagged. “Obvious problems” in-
clude such things as a change in alignment between the original version and
the AMS output, any missing or mangled elements, etc. Leave a query for
the compositor if it is an alignment problem, and include the location of the
table in the original manuscript.
8.6. Landscape tables
The AMS strongly prefers to reset a table in a portrait orientation, whenever
possible. However, some tables simply cannot be reduced enough, and these
will be set landscape. Table 4 (p. 59) is an example of a table that could
not be reduced to fit.
In order to set a table landscape, it must appear on a separate page
from the text. For this reason, the positioning of landscape tables is more

8.7. Some examples57
approximate. The copy editor should note where landscape items fell in the
original manuscript, and the compositor will place them as close as possible
to that original position.
8.7. Some examples
Here are some standard examples.
Table 1.Proof of Example 2.19 in the casek=1
((r, s),μ)(L, z)λxW
(n
1
,n
2
)
(W, L)
(τ,i)
+−
+
+

∗
0
0
0

,

000
1
000
0
000
0
0000

(2,1
2
)

0αβ
1
000
0
000
0
0000

α, β∈C

∗
0
0
0

(1,0)
L=W
⎛
⎝
00
0
2
,2
⎞
⎠
+−
+
+

0
∗
0
0

,

000
1
000
0
000
0
0000

(2,1
2
)

000
1
000
0
000
0
0000


∗
0
0
0

(1,0)
L⊂W+V
2
⎛
⎝
00
0
2
,0
⎞
⎠
−+
+
+

0
∗
0
0

,

000
0
000
0
000
0
1000

(2,1
2
)

000
0
α00
0
000
0
1000

α∈C


0
α
0
1


C
(0,0)
L⊂W+V
2
,L⊂W
⎛
⎝
01
0
1
,1
⎞
⎠
−+
+
+

∗
0
0
0

,

000
0
000
0
000
0
1000

(2,1
2
)

000
0
000
0
000
0
1000

V
2
(0,1)
L⊂W+V
2
⎛
⎝
02
0
0
,0
⎞
⎠
+
+
+
−

∗
0
0
0

,

000
0
000
0
000
0
0000

(1
4
)

000
0
000
0
000
0
0000

any line
(0,0)
L⊂W+V
2
⎛
⎝
01
0
1
,0
⎞
⎠
Table 2.Model parameters used for the numerical computations.
SymbolValueDefinition
σ
i
0.455intracellular conductivity
σ
e
5extracellular conductivity
L2×10
−4
computation domain size
r0.5×10
−4
cell radius
δ5×10
−9
membrane thickness
r
p
0.76pore radius
σ
p
0.0746pore conductivity
V
ep
0.258characteristic voltage of electropermeabilization
α10
9
electropermeabilization parameter
N
0
1.5×10
9
equilibrium pore density
c
m
9.5×10
−12
membrane capacitance

588. Tables
Table 3.Changes in microscopic parameters and the reac-
tion of the effective parameters in equation (6.3)
effectiveeigenvaluesλ
1
/λ
2
eigenvaluesλ
1
/λ
2
conductivityσ
0
ofA
0
ofA
1
(0)
Example 1: Difference in conductivity
Example 2: Difference in cell shape: change of the excentricitya/b
Example 3: Difference in volume fraction of the cells
Example 4: Difference in angleφof the lattice arrangement

8.7. Some examples59
Table 4.
Ordering 1-PS’s up to duality, III
1-PS
λ
strictly positive isotypical summands of
∧
3
λ
(7
,
4
,
1
2
,
−
2
,
−
11)
012, 013
014, 023
024, 034, 123
124, 134
t
12
t
9
t
6
t
3
(7
,
4
2
,
−
2
,
−
5
,
−
8)
012
013, 023
014, 024, 123
015, 025, 124
t
15
t
9
t
6
t
3
(7
2
,
1
2
,
−
5
,
−
11)
012, 013
014, 023, 123
015, 024, 034, 124, 134
t
15
t
9
t
3
(8
,
5
,
2
,
−
1
,
−
4
,
−
10)
012
013
014, 023
024, 123
015, 034, 124
t
15
t
12
t
9
t
6
t
3
(10
,
7
,
1
,
−
2
,
−
5
,
−
11)
012
013
014
023
015, 024, 123
034, 124
t
18
t
15
t
12
t
9
t
6
t
3
(10
,
7
,
4
,
−
2
,
−
8
,
−
11)
012
013
023
014, 123
015, 024
025, 124
t
21
t
15
t
12
t
9
t
6
t
3
(11
,
5
,
2
,
−
1
,
−
4
,
−
13)
012
013
014, 023
024
034, 123
015, 124
t
18
t
15
t
12
t
9
t
6
t
3
(11
,
5
2
,
−
1
,
−
7
,
−
13)
012
013, 023
014, 024, 123
015, 025, 034, 124
t
21
t
15
t
9
t
3
(11
,
8
,
2
,
−
1
,
−
7
,
−
13)
012
013
014, 023
123
015, 024
034, 124
t
21
t
18
t
12
t
9
t
6
t
3
(11
,
8
,
5
,
−
4
,
−
7
,
−
13)
012
013
014, 023
024, 123
015, 124
025
t
24
t
15
t
12
t
9
t
6
t
3
(13
,
7
,
1
2
,
−
5
,
−
17)
012, 013
014, 023
024, 034, 123
015, 124, 134
t
21
t
15
t
9
t
3
(17
,
11
,
5
,
−
1
,
−
13
,
−
19)
012
013
023
014, 123
015, 024
025, 034, 124
t
33
t
27
t
21
t
15
t
9
t
3
(19
,
13
,
7
,
−
5
,
−
11
,
−
23)
012
013
014, 023
024, 123
015, 124
025, 034
t
39
t
27
t
21
t
15
t
9
t
3

Chapter 9
Appendices
Appendices are optional. They appear after the body of the paper but before
acknowledgments or references.
9.1. Form
An appendix may appear in the manuscript numbered as a section of the
paper, appear without a number, or be identified by a roman numeral or
letter. Any of these forms is acceptable. It is acceptable to have an Appendix
A without subsequent Appendices A, B, C, etc., if the author coded it that
way, though when there are no other appendices, the AMS prefers that a
single appendix be simply labeled “Appendix”. An appendix head is the
same as a section head (see p. 27), and any text following it begins in a
paragraph below. Here are some examples of appendix head styles.
Appendix
Appendix A
8. Appendix
Appendix. Details of the blockwise converter
A copy editor may move a very long table (e.g., more than six pages)
into an appendix if it interrupts the text too much. This sort of change
requires a query to the author for approval.
61

629. Appendices
9.2. Text callouts
Callouts to appendices follow the same form as for sections.
•Two or more appendices are cited in text as “see Appendices A and
B” and “see Appendices A, B, and C”, not as “see Appendix A and
Appendix B.”
•Every section callout must include the word “Appendix”. If the author
cites a lettered appendix using§A, change it to say “Appendix A”, as
the§symbol does not apply to appendices. In the unusual circumstance
that the author simply refers to a section within the appendix (e.g.,
D.3) please edit to include the complete callout (e.g., Appendix D.3).
When in doubt, query the author.
•If text callouts must be changed, leave a note describing the problem,
and the compositor will manage it.
•The word “Appendix” is capitalized in a callout only if the cited ap-
pendix is numbered or lettered.
–See Appendix B.
[Numbered or lettered appendices are proper nouns.]
–See the appendix.
[Unnumbered or unlettered appendices are referred to generically.]

Chapter 10
References
The AMS uses a program (addmr) that checks all references against its cu-
rated database,MathSciNet(MSN).
1
During this process, when the program
finds a match in MSN, the original reference is replaced with that from MSN.
This alleviates many format problems, but the copyeditor must ensure that
the correct substitution has been made. The other essential check is that the
copyeditor review any unchanged references for consistency with the MSN
versions. Because of the very high substitution “hit rate”, there are rarely
many unchanged references. But there can be wildly different forms for the
references, which will be obvious when reviewing the originals interspersed
with the MSN substitutions.
10.1. Reference checking
There are two tracks for editing journal references since they all have been
run through theaddmrprogram:
•check that the MSN substitutions match the author’s original reference,
and
•check that any original references are consistent with MR style.
1
Some essential terminology: MR stands for Mathematical Reviews, a division of the Amer-
ican Mathematical Society; MSN stands forMathSciNet, the database of Mathematical Reviews
listings; and an MR number is the number assigned to each review within the database.
63

6410. References
It is typical that there are only a few references that remain in their original
form. The copyeditor will need the following:
•the AMS output copy intended for the copyeditor’s markups,
•the author’s original submission of the article.
The steps below outline the two tracks of editing and what to look for.
Note that theMSN-replaced items will be the standard to follow, and the
remaining originals need to mirror that style.
Working in the AMS copy, do a copycheck of all references against the
author’s original version. (Note: Acopycheckis a quick glance at the author
name(s), title, journal or book series, dates, and any additional information
to ensure that the correct MSN entry has been added and that all the
elements are there and in the correct order. This isnota character-by-
character proofread!) If there is a problem with theaddmrsubstitution, it is
usually glaringly obvious. For the references that now have an MR number,
you will follow track (1); for those without, track (2).
(1) Copycheck each MSN-replaced reference on the AMS copy against the
author’s original to confirm that the MSN substitutions match the
author’s original. Occasionally, a reference is changed to a wildly dif-
ferent MSN item during theaddmrprocess. In this case, simply mark
the reference for “revert” in the right margin and continue to the next
reference.
There are some known problems with the MSN substitutions. A
common example is that any subtitles or notes may appear in the wrong
location within the reference or in roman (instead of italic) font. Check
the correct order and mark for the compositor to fix. A light copycheck
of each reference element will make such problems obvious.
(2) When reviewing references in their original (unchanged) form, make
sure the author names are in the same order as the MSN substitutions
(e.g., first name or initial then last name) and that the fonting of the
reference elements matches that used in the MSN substitutions.
The only time a 3-em line will appear in the references is in an
unchanged reference. In each case, please replace the 3-em line with
the appropriate name or names.
Personal communications orarXivitems shouldnothave an MR
number. Items fromarXivshould appear as author,title,arXivnum-
ber, year.

10.2. Reference examples65
10.2. Reference examples
The two examples below (in both their wrong and corrected versions) show
references in which, after being run throughaddmr, the series was moved to
the end of the reference entry, instead of following the title. This problem
is exclusive to books in a series.
M. Golubitsky and V. Guillemin,Stable mappings and their singularities, Springer-
Verlag, New York–Heidelberg, 1973. Graduate Texts in Mathematics, Vol. 14.
MR0341518
M. Golubitsky and V. Guillemin,Stable mappings and their singularities, Graduate Texts
in Mathematics, Vol. 14, Springer-Verlag, New York–Heidelberg, 1973. MR0341518
Melvin S. Berger,Nonlinearity and functional analysis, Academic Press [Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich Publishers], New York–London, 1977. Lectures on nonlinear problems in
mathematical analysis; Pure and Applied Mathematics. MR 0488101
Melvin S. Berger,Nonlinearity and functional analysis, Lectures on nonlinear problems
in mathematical analysis, Pure and Applied Mathematics, Academic Press [Harcourt
Brace Jovanovich Publishers], New York–London, 1977. MR 0488101
The next examples show a paper that is posted toarXiv.
O. A. Camarena and B. Szegedy,Nilspaces, nilmanifolds and their morphisms,
http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3825[math.DS], 2012.
O. A. Camarena and B. Szegedy,Nilspaces, nilmanifolds and their morphisms,
arXiv:1009.3825, 2012.
This example shows a DOI number (always welcome, and please note
its location) and also how extraneous material can be transferred during the
addmrprocess. Since the dedication does not assist a researcher in finding
the item, it should be deleted. It is likely that it was not in the author’s
original manuscript either.
Clifford J. Earle,Some remarks on the Beltrami equation, Math. Scand.36(1975), 44–
48, DOI 10.7146/math.scand/a-11561. Collection of articles dedicated to Werner Fenchel
on his 70th birthday. MR0374417
Clifford J. Earle,Some remarks on the Beltrami equation, Math. Scand.36(1975), 44–48,
DOI 10.7146/math.scand/a-11561. MR0374417

6610. References
10.3. Reference citations
There are several styles of reference citations, and the copy editor must check
that the form in the AMS output matches the author’s original manuscript.
The most common style is a number within brackets, e.g., [1], [2]. The next
most common style is a short alpha-numeric form, e.g., [Serre71] or (even
shorter) [S71]. When multiple authors are involved, the citations become
lengthy, e.g., [dlVP-SD04] for de la Valle ́e-Poussin and Swinnerton-Dyer
from 2004.
When reviewing the reference section, if the reference citation overruns
the left margin or the hanging indent is too narrow to accomodate long
citations, the copy editor must determine which is thewidestcitation. Leave
a note for the compositor saying, e.g., “AMS: widest is FdBPP12”. This
information is used to set the correct hanging indent width in the reference
section (see, e.g., Figure 3 on p. 22).
[DL99] J. Denef and F. Loeser,Germs of arcs on singular algebraic varieties and motivic in-
tegration, Invent. Math.135(1999), no. 1, 201–232, DOI 10.1007/s002220050284.
MR1664700
[FdBPP12] J. Fern ́andez de Bobadilla and M. P. Pereira,The Nash problem for surfaces, Ann. of
Math. (2)176(2012), no. 3, 2003–2029, DOI 10.4007/annals.2012.176.3.11. MR2979864
[Gra58] H. Grauert,On Levi’s problem and the imbedding of real-analytic manifolds, Ann. of
Math. (2)68(1958), 460–472. MR0098847
The reference citations within the text must exactly match what appears
in the reference section. If an author needs to cite something specific within
a referenced work, that information is appended to the citation and is kept
within the brackets, e.g., [dlVP-SD04, Thm. 3.9]. In this example, the use
of “Thm.” is allowed because it is part of the citation. We never change
the form used by the author within a citation. While multiple reference
citations can appear within a single pair of brackets and be separated by
a comma, a reference citation with appended information can only appear
singly, e.g., [dlVP-SD04, Thm. 3.9], [Serre71].

Chapter 11
Corrigenda
and Errata
A corrigendum
1
or an erratum is an article (usually very short, ranging from
a single paragraph to 2–3 pages) submitted to a journal that serves as a cor-
rection to an article previously published, typically in that journal. These
forms are divided into mathematical corrigenda and publication errata. Be-
cause a corrigendum is an article, it must follow the same rules for top and
end matter described in Chapter 2. This includes having an abstract, a
received date, and MSN numbers. The use of errata has all but disappeared
in print as this form now appears online, often well before printing.
•Amathematical corrigendumis a correction of the mathematical con-
tent of a previously published article. This can be submitted by the
author of the original article or by another researcher claiming to have
found an error in the original author’s paper. Mathematical corrigenda
must be approved for publication by the journal editor.
•Apublication erratumis a correction to an error made by AMS’s ed-
itorial or production department or by one of AMS’s compositors or
printers, e.g., a mistake in rendering a correction from the author or
a page with missing print. In rare instances it can be an author error
that must be corrected, e.g., incorrect or missing grant information
that could affect the funding of a project. The decision to publish such
an erratum is usually made by the AMS.
1
Some journal editors also submit “corrections”, which follow the same rules as corrigenda.
The AMS honors the journal editor’s choice of either “corrigendum” or “corrections”.
67

6811. Corrigenda and Errata
11.1. Title and running heads
The title of mathematical corrigenda appears as follows:
corrigenda to “[title of original article]”
As explained in Chapter 2, the title will print in all caps, but the copy
editor should mark for caps and lowercase so the electronic version of the
title appears correctly.
Both running heads are simply “corrigenda”. The AMS accepts either
the singular or plural form as submitted by the author or journal editor.
11.2. Abstract and other top matter
The abstract of the corrigendum contains the rest of the bibliographic infor-
mation for the original article. Some authors choose to include a statement
of the reason for the corrigendum. In the abstract, specific bibliographic
information is included, as the author requests. It may be only the journal
name, volume, date, and pages, or it could include a complete reference to
the paper, including the author names.
Abstract.It has been brought to our attention that there is an error in the
statement of Theorem 2.2 of our article, which appeared in Math. Comp. 83 (2014),
no. 289, 2127–2160. We briefly explain how this error can be corrected.
Abstract.This corrigendum makes two corrections to J. Koll ́ar and S. Mori,
“Classification of three-dimensional flips”, J. Amer. Math. Soc. 5 (1992), 533–703.
Abstract.Typographical errors which changed important definitions in the paper
“Vector measures and the strong operator topology” (Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 137
(2009), 2345–2350) are addressed.
Abstract.The authors correct an error in the grant information for “Global
dynamics of a Yang-Mills field on an asymptotocally hyperbolic space”, Trans.
Amer. Math. Soc. 369 (2017), 2029–2048.
Write out the complete citation of the original article in the abstract. In
most cases, the original article must be one of the references (often it will
be the only reference), and this reference must be cited in the text (usually
at the very beginning). Please recall that linked items such as references
cannot appear within any abstract.

Part 2
Editing and Style

Introduction to Part 2
Many people wonder how one can successfully edit a research-level mathe-
matics paper without understanding the math. Briefly, an experienced copy
editor will need to be familiar with the mechanics of mathematical language
(especially math symbols as parts of speech) in order to copyedit papers
for basic grammar, correct punctuation, clear and concise syntax, and con-
sistency with AMS style. In-text math and displayed equations should be
edited as lightly as possible.
The most important consideration to bear in mind when editing is the
Hippocratic oath:First, do no harm. The publishing mission of the
AMS is to provide services for its members, which by extension includes
subscribers and authors. Always keep in mind that we must put their needs
first. The primary manifestation of that attitude is a light editorial hand.
There are two reasons for this:
(1) Editorial changes may affect the meaning of the content. When in
doubt, query AMS staff or the author.
(2) Any change takes up the time of three people—the copy editor, the
compositor, and the proofreader. Is the change really worth it?
Within this part of theAMS Style Guide, we explain our grammatical,
syntactical, stylistic, and mathematical preferences for copyediting. No part
of this guide exists separately from another—the copyeditor really does need
to learn all the rules. And then practice them!
Printed in both Chapters 12 and 13 is a table showing some mathemat-
ical symbols and what part of speech they represent. This table is the basis
for translating mathematical symbols into grammar, and it will be among
your most important tools while learning how to edit mathematics.
71

72Introduction to Part 2
Elementary rules of copyediting anywhere
•Look up the spelling of every unfamiliar term.
•When reference information is mentioned in text, double-check it
against the bibliography.
•Keep a style sheet for consistency of formatting of terms.
•Consult grammar sources regarding points about which you are unsure.
•Remember that every publisher has its own style manual that must be
followed.
Some additional rules of copyediting for the AMS
•Any numbered item—theorem, reference, equation, and so on—should
be listed on the style sheet (see Figure 1). With this list the copy editor
can check all cross-references at a glance.
•Bad line breaks (most frequently in math) and line overruns need to
be fixed, and short, long, or overly spacy pages must be marked for
review at paging.
•All numbered figures and tables need in-text callouts so they will link
in the online and hypertext versions of the paper.

Chapter 12
Editing Text
Having set up some basic guidelines for the approach to working on an AMS
paper in Chapter 1, and having presented the various elements of an AMS
journal paper top and end matter in Chapter 2 and its text elements in
Chapter 4, we can now get down to the business of editing the text of a
mathematical paper. In Chapter 13 we will discuss the details of editing the
mathematics.
Here are some broad strokes: The basic work process described in Chap-
ter 1 will be your road map through this multilayered but logical process. An
understanding of the material in Chapters 2 and 4 will be essential to com-
pleting the checklist (Figure 1) and ensuring compliance with AMS journal
format requirements. When starting a paper, review the numbering systems
and list them on the checklist so you’ll have all the cross-references to num-
bered enunciationsat a glanceduring the edit (cross-references to citations
in the references will have to be confirmed individually). A paper may con-
tain sections and subsections; numbered or unnumbered theorems, remarks,
definitions, etc.; in-text (unnumbered) or displayed (sometimes numbered)
equations; footnotes; figures; and tables.The AMS requires that all
reference citations, numbered figures, and numbered tables be
linked.The copy editor will be able to identify any linked element because
each will appear with its number highlighted (a linked number prints with
a gray screen and it shows with an underscore in an electronic version; see
Appendix G, recto pages).
73

7412. Editing Text
12.1. Basic editing
The AMS usesThe Chicago Manual of Style, 16th Edition(CMS), as its
principal source of guidance for both grammar and style, but there are
many deviations throughout this guide.The Elements of Styleby Strunk
and White is a marvelous and very brief source for grammatical information
and guidance. Additionally,Mathematics into Typeis the principal guidance
on handling mathematical typesetting in publishing, andWords into Type
remains a solid and sensible reference for anything not found in the others.
•Read the paper carefully and correct errors in grammar, spelling, and
usage.
•Correct incomplete sentences, dangling participles, and disagreement
in number, gender, or tense.
•Edit to improve wording and senseonly as needed. Different authors
may write separate sections of the paper; edit the paper for consistency
of style throughout (capitalization, hyphenation, prefix form, etc.), but
allow the different voices to be heard.
•Allow British spellings when consistent within a paper, but change all
to American if the author has mixed British and American spelling.
•Papers by English-as-a-second-language (ESL) authors need special at-
tention, particularly to idioms, articles, pronouns, and verbs.
•Impose and maintain a consistent style for spelling (e.g., “parameter-
ize” or “parametrize”, but not both), punctuation, and treatment of
compounds (e.g., “first-order equation” or “equation of first order”, hy-
phenated or open; “time-step” or “timestep”, hyphenated or closed);
mathematical expressions (e.g., 1000 versus 1,000; 2-norm versus two-
norm); reference citations (e.g., [1], [2], [3] or [1, 2, 3]); numbering
(e.g., Theorem 1 or Theorem 1.1); and formatting. Note all stylistic
decisions on the style sheet.
•Check the title, running heads, abstract, and section heads to make
sure usage (spelling, hyphenation) is consistent with the text.
•On the style sheet there is a space at the bottom for keeping a list of
numbered enunciations—section numbers; numbers of lemmas, theo-
rems, remarks, etc.; equation numbers; and figure and table numbers.
As you create this list, you will be able to see any anomalies in the
numbering system, and these will have to be resolved.
•Many authors do not punctuate series of equations even if their text
punctuation is acceptable. We edit to include this punctuation. See
Chapter 13.

12.2. Mathematical symbols in text75
•Figures and tables are placed within the same section as their callouts,
generally on either the same page or the following page. Numbered
figures and tables must not appear midparagraph if located in the
middle of a page. See Chapters 7 and 8 for instructions for styling
figures and tables.
•Mark unlinked reference citations, numbered figures, and numbered
tables to be linked.
•Overly large spaces between paragraphs, headings, and displays can
occur when long displayed equations, figures, or tables fall awkwardly
relative to page breaks. These should be noted by the copy editor, and
they will be reviewed at final paging.
•Lines may spread because of accents, symbols atop variables, or large
in-text mathematical expressions. This vertical spread is unavoidable.
Note: We allow references to other pages within a single journal paper,
but each such occurrence must be marked forpagerefcoding, which the
compositor will manage and which will update the page number each time
the paper is run through L
A
T
E
X.
12.2. Mathematical symbols in text
Here we begin discussing mathematics in text.It is necessary to group
mathematical symbols into parts of speech. Below are some common
symbols that will shape the discussion; Table 12.1 of CMS contains a more
complete list. The copy editor will need copies of both lists close at hand
until recognizing the symbols by their part of speech becomes natural. This
table also appears in Chapter 13 because of its foundational importance in
learning how to edit mathematical text.
Operators:
Verbs:==<>≤≥≺≤≥⊂⊃∈≡≡∼∼

∼
=
→←⇒⇔∈
Conjunctions:+−×
̇
+∓∪∩∨∧·◦⊕⊗
Fences:{}[]()||$$
Nouns: italic, Greek, German, Hebrew, and Cyrillic letters; numerals
Sigma-class symbols:
Collective signs:

Integral:


7612. Editing Text
12.3. Type
12.3.1. Blackboard bold.Mark “fake” blackboard bold type to be set as
true blackboard bold (see Appendix E).
Fake:IR
True:R
The copy editor’s mark for this is to circle the fake letter and write “bbb”
in the right margin.
12.3.2. Bold.Bold is used for subsection headings; for variables, as set by
the author; and in algorithms, as set by the author.
•The AMS strongly prefers to avoid the use of bold text for emphasis. To
emphasize a word, use lightface italic (or roman in italic environments).
However, stet the author’s usage if consistent.
•Most list identifiers are not bold, although the coding for some list
structures outputs bold identifiers. Stet bold identifiers only if consis-
tent.
12.3.3. Italics.
•Change slant type to italic.
This is slant type.
This is italic type.
•The text of theorems, lemmas, and other math items is italic; see
Chapter 4 for AMS styling of enunciations.
•Author-created functions may be italic (these are uncommon “siblings”
of the standard roman functions cos, sin, log, etc.). Check for consis-
tency and list all of these functions on the style sheet under the Roman
or Text Dependent heading, as appropriate. Functions may appear
in italics when used as subscripts or superscripts within math mode.
Functions listed in Appendix A should all be roman, but if the author
is absolutely consistent, the AMS will allow italics. Variables from the
Latin alphabet are generally italic (f) but may appear as bold roman
(f), bold italic (f), roman (f), German (fraktur) (f), calligraphic (F),
or blackboard bold (F). Stet the author’s usage, but always change
fake blackboard bold to true (see Appendix E).

12.3. Type77
Roman and italic variables:
E[d
(j)
(w, R, x%Y, Y)−e
(j)
(w, R, Y)] =δ
(j)
0
(w).
Bold and italic variables:

j∈{0,...,k
n
−1}
c
j
≥k
n
p
n
−k
2/3
n
=m
n
+k
n
2/3
.
Bold, italic, roman, and calligraphic variables:
L
1
(D,E)=

x∈S
|Pr[D(x)]−Pr[E(x)]|/2.
•Abbreviations and acronyms are italic within italic text (we call this
style “text dependent”).
•Punctuation and parentheses within italic text output as italic when
used as true punctuation—that is, when not part of math. (Authors
occasionally code all parentheses as roman, and this practice is accept-
able.) Parentheses that are part of a math expression should always
be roman.
The function graph ofF(λ)=F(I(λ))is piecewise linear and convex; we
shall denote it byG(P). (The function graph is convex for a maximization
problem.)
•Stet the author’s use of italics for the first use of a term or for occasional
emphasis.
Similarly, acycle dagis a dag whose covering graph is a cycle, atree dag
is a dag whose covering graph is a tree, and aunicyclic dagis a dag whose
covering graph contains a single cycle. A tree dag isrootedby selecting an
arbitrary node to be itsroot.
12.3.4. Roman.
•Arabic numerals are always set in roman type within italic text, never
in italics. This holds for numerals within italic text, mathematical
expressions, figure legends, and references, and for numerals used as
identifiers within lists, e.g., (1), (i).
Occasionally, a table will contain a group of numerals set in italics
to distinguish these from another group of numerals. Stet this arrange-
ment.
•All letters used to identify parts of figures (Figure 2.1(a)) are roman.

7812. Editing Text
•Latin words or abbreviations that can be found in the dictionary—for
example, a priori, et al.—are text dependent (they appear in roman in
roman text and in italic in italic text). See Appendix C for a standard
list of Latin expressions.
•The functions in Appendix A are roman in math and in text. An author
can use almost any term as a function. Author-created functions—
those that don’t appear in Appendix A—may be set in italics. There
is space on the style sheet for you to list all these terms (both roman
and text dependent) to help with keeping them consistent throughout a
paper. The functions in Appendix A may appear as italic in subscripts
and superscripts, however. Make a judgement about whether to fix or
stet these based upon frequency of use (if there are a load of them and
the author is consistent, let them stand).
•The font for emphasis in roman text is italic, and the font for emphasis
in italic text is roman.
12.3.5. Greek, Hebrew, and Cyrillic.In addition to Latin alphabet
variables, advanced mathematics also uses Greek, Hebrew, and Cyrillic char-
acters as variables.
•Lowercase Greek characters are always italic (γ, δ, θ). Note that the
lowercase Greek letter omicron is indistinguishable from the Latin “o”.
•Uppercase Greek characters are always roman (Γ,Δ,Θ). There are
about a dozen Greek uppercase letters that are the same as certain
letters in the Latin alphabet. These look-alikes are seldom used in math
formulas to avoid confusion. There are variants of Greek uppercase
letters that appear in italics; see Appendix E.
Greek, Hebrew, and Cyrillic characters as variables:
Greek characters are so common in AMS journals that the copy editor should
either learn the Greek alphabet or have Appendix E handy.
0<λ
ε
1
(ξ)≤λ
ε
2
(ξ)≤···≤λ
ε
k
(ξ)≤···→+∞
Hebrew characters are not encountered frequently, but here are two examples
from set theory.
Does GCH +
א
ω
,ω
imply the existence of anא
ω+1
-Souslin tree?
U
fin
(Γ,ג(Γ)) =S
fin
(Γ,ג(Γ))

12.4. Capitalization in lists79
The Cyrillic characterX, or “Sha”, is the only one that is regularly used
in mathematics.
X
2
(E/Q)={C(1,1)}
∪{C(δ
1
,δ
2
)∈Sel(E/Qwithout points overQ}
0−→E(Q)/2E(Q)−→Sel
2
(E/Q)−→X
2
(E/Q)−→0
12.4. Capitalization in lists
A quick digression about lists is in order: Use parallel construction!
•In text, words denoting parts of a list (e.g., step or case) are lowercase,
unless the list itself gives the items as Step 1, Case (a), etc.
It is convenient to split it into three regions:
Region1.n,n/2.
Region2.n/3.
Region3.n/(3·2),...,n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
),....
In Region 1,b
i+1
is eithernorn/2; that is,i=lb−1ori=lb−2.
Because the list items are given as “Regionx”, it becomes a proper
noun and is capitalized. However, references to list item identifiers that
are not “named” are not capitalized.
It is convenient to split it into three regions:
1.n,n/2.
2.n/3.
3.n/(3·2),...,n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
),....
In region 1,b
i+1
is eithernorn/2; that is,i=lb−1ori=lb−2.
•Names of theorems, lemmas, concepts, etc., are lowercase (except for
proper nouns), e.g., the fast Fourier transform theorem. Numbered
theorems, lemmas, etc., are proper nouns and, thus, are capitalized:
Theorem 2.2, Lemma 3.1, Figure 4.5.
•The first word of a list item is capitalized only if the item is a complete
sentence.
Note the following:
(1) The intervale
p
is contained in some cell ofD(Q).
(2) The endpoints ofe
p
lie onP
1
andP
2
.
(3) The vertical span ofe
p
is ̄μ/(6δ+1).

8012. Editing Text
If the list items are phrases, you can use either commas or semicolons,
depending on whether there is internal punctuation.
The connected graphGis built by
(1) committing all uncommitted edges, as described above;
(2) joining the remaining open entry vertices with some number, Δ, of
extra vertices so as to makeGhavenvertices and bed-regular; and
(3) designating one of these extra vertices ast.
There is much more on lists in Chapter 6.
12.5. Wording
•Stetshall, upon, since.
•Stet author’s use ofwell-behaved,well-defined,well-order, and
well-posed. (See Appendix D for definitions of these terms with
hyphens.)
•Stetfuture tenseunless it is grammatically incorrect.
•Usefirst person plural, including in the abstract. Stetplural per-
sonal pronounseven when there is only one author. The use ofone
also is acceptable.
•Try to avoid reference numbers, variables, equation numbers, and math-
ematical expressions as thefirstwordinasentence.
•When the word “equation” falls midsentence before the equation num-
ber, it can be deleted to help with line breaks, but do not delete terms
describing the equation, such as “assumption (2.6)”, “problem (14)”,
“inequality (3.3)”. Stet “equation” at the beginning of a sentence.
•Stet the word “equation” when it is part of such expressions as “the
density equation (3.1)”. Also stet “equation” for clarity.
Under the assumption in (1.2), equation (1.1) has monotone traveling wave
assumptions.
•Stet the use of either “resp.” or “respectively” if usage is consistent
within the paper. Insert a comma before or after respectively, or both,
depending on the construction (see the section on commas below). Use
of “respectively” in text and “resp.” in parentheses within a paper is
an acceptable construction and is preferred.
•Stet the author’s use of “i.e.”, “e.g.”, “that is”, “for example”, “vice
versa”, “cf.”, and “etc.” These are text dependent. The expressions
“i.e.”, “e.g.”, “that is”, “for example”, and “etc.” are set off with com-
mas.

12.5. Wording81
•Use “For all”, not∀, and “There exists”, not∃, at the beginning of a
sentence. These symbols should only appear within a math expression
and are best reserved for displayed math. We will stet an author’s
use in borderline cases, but use caution when introducing any math
symbols (see p. 99).

For all setsS
i
inP, partitionS
i
into cliques containingv,S

i
.

Aschemeisindependentif for all its states local satisfaction implies global
satisfaction.
ok
a
Observe that if a solutionφof (1.6) satisfies lim
t→+∞
$φ(t)$
H
2
=0,then
by the orbital stability result,φ(t)=0∀t∈R.

There existsε>0 such that for any oddφ
in
∈H
1
×L
2
....
ok
b
We claim the following coercivity property:∃κ>0 such that
w, Z
1
=0=⇒


3
4
w
2
x
−
21
10
sech
2

x
2

w
2

≥κ

w
2
x
.
ok
c
Ehas the property thata∈A
μ
andG(B
G
,E(h, a)) are measurably
conjugate∀h∈H.
a
In this example the∀symbol falls within a math expression, its only acceptable location. It
would be equally acceptable to spell it out because it falls within in-text math.
b
In this example the∃symbol falls between text and mathematics, and we prefer the use of
text here instead of a symbol; however, since the author used the∃symbol here, we would let
it stand.
c
In this case, the∀symbol is being used instead of text—a lazy shortcut but acceptable.
•Use “section” without abbreviation. Note that the AMS prefers the
lowercase form. If, however, the author uses initial caps consistently,
we will allow it. Note also that we will allow§instead of “section”
if used consistently. See section 3.3 for additional information about
handling “section”.
•Spell out numbered enunciations in full (e.g., Theorem 6.7, Definition
2.1, Remark 3) since they are proper nouns. Abbreviated forms (e.g.,
Thm. 6.7, Def. 2.1, Rem. 3) are not allowed except when cited as part
of a reference (e.g., [11, Thm. 6.7 and Def. 2.1]).

8212. Editing Text
•In text, spell out “Figure” and “Table” for figure and table callouts,
respectively. See Figure 2.1 and Table 3.2.
•Avoid the use of “above” or “below” when referencing numbered figures
and tables. Because AMS journals also appear online, we prefer the
use of full text references to figures and tables, so they will be linked
in the hypertext version of the paper.
•Change the author’s use of “the sequel” to “what follows” or similar
wording. Be sure, however, that the author is not referring to Part II
of a paper in a series, for example, for which the sequel designation is
correct.
•Use a comma inif/then constructions.
We infer that ifφ
in
is small enough, thenφ(t) is global in time.
Ifx<0, thenx=y.
•Inaseriesoflet/be statements, make sure each of these statements
has both “let” and “be” with the appropriate punctuation. These are
independent clauses and should be joined by a comma.
LetKbe a triangle (tetrahedron), and letSbe any of its edges (faces).
Letρbe a segment, letgbe an elliptic curve, and lethbe a domain.
It is permissible to group like items within a let/be statement, but be
cautious about punctuation with other independent clauses.
LetIandJbe two disjoint sets of indices, and consider the set of all
J-coordinates of points inAwith givenI-coordinates.
In an exception to the CMS guidance on elided text (CMS, 6.49), the
AMS allows the following form of let/be statement.
LetAbe an abelian group andh:A→Ra real valued function onA
such that the function...
This does not generalize to other situations, and the form above is
strict. This is a case of a usage that has been “grandfathered in”—the
example given is part of a famous lemma, and parallel examples are
common.
•Stet the author’s use of “that” and “which”. These may be changed
only if you are sure you understand the author’s meaning and you
are sure that meaning will not be changed. (The Elements of Style
concisely explains “that” versus “which”.)

12.6. Acronyms83
•Set up proper parallelization.
The proof follows easily from Proposition 3.4, Theorems 3.5 and 2.4.
The proof follows easily from Proposition 3.4 and Theorems 3.5 and
2.4.
This type of system is practical, easily implemented, and can be
adapted to different problems.
This type of system is practical and easily implemented and can be
adapted to different problems.
The impedanceZ

depends both on the driving currentIand the
actual boundary conditionsψ
R
andψ
I
.
The impedanceZ

depends on both the driving currentIand the
actual boundary conditionsψ
R
andψ
I
.
As a result, in this case the first eigenvalue is genuinely nonlinear and
therefore either will admit shock waves or rarefactions.
As a result, in this case the first eigenvalue is genuinely nonlinear and
therefore will admit either shock waves or rarefactions.
•The computer language MATLAB is spelled in all caps.
12.6. Acronyms
•Spell out acronyms the first time they are used in the text, followed by
the acronym in parentheses.
•An acronym spelled out in the abstract must be spelled out again in
the body of the text.
•Use an acronym consistently throughout the paper once it has been
introduced.
•Key words may appear as acronyms if the acronym is used throughout
the article.
•Plural acronyms are formed with a lowercase “s”, no apostrophe; e.g.,
PDEs.
•Mark the “s” in plural acronyms to be lowercase in titles and running
heads.
•3D, 3-D, 3d, 3-d (for three-dimensional), e.g., are acronyms and should
be spelled out on first use.

8412. Editing Text
•Some acronyms are better known than their spelled-out name. In such
a case it is possible to reverse the definition so that the acronym appears
first and the spelled-out version follows it in parentheses.
...the RSA algorithm (the Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman algorithm)
12.7. Punctuation
Mark the paper to conform to AMS style. Maintain the author’s style if
it is consistent and does not violate specific grammar or AMS style rules.
Always be careful not to impose your personal style on the author. Math-
ematical expressions, including displayed equations, are treated as phrases
or sentences and are punctuated accordingly (see section 13.4).
12.7.1. Period.
•Figure and table captions end with a period only when they are a full
sentence.
•There is a period after each initial in an abbreviated hyphenated name:
Y.-N. Lee or J.-P. Serre.
12.7.2. Comma.Don’t overuse the comma. An open style—using com-
mas only when necessary—is preferred (see p. 11). You should retain the
author’s use of commas whenever possible.
If a comma is not incorrect as placed, leave it alone. For example, short
or midsentence phrases such as “thus”, “therefore”, and “hence” may be
followed by a comma or not. If commas are used, or not used, consistently
in similar constructions throughout the paper, leave them alone. Your goal
is to make the paper consistent.
ConsultThe Chicago Manual of Stylefor comma usage and guidelines
(Chapter 6, sections 6.16–6.53).
12.7.2.1.Whentoaddacomma.
•Use the serial comma before “and” or “or” in lists of three or more
items. If commas are used within the items themselves, separate the
items with semicolons.
•Use commas to set off parenthetical material (see CMS, section 6.24–
6.27).
Discretion, they say, is the better part of valor.
In this case,x
i
>2,i=1,...,N,andkdenotes a constant.

12.7. Punctuation85
In the latter example,i=1,...,Nis a condition ofx
i
>2; condi-
tions are treated as parentheticals. See section 13.4.
•Set off “respectively” with commas.
The first- and third-order methods are discussed in sections 2 and 4, re-
spectively.
Usingm=1(resp.,m=.001) yields 20 (resp., 42) points per subdomain.
T= 1 and 1 +nare solved, respectively, in problems 2 and 4.
•Use a comma before “where” following an equation; it usually intro-
duces nonrestrictive information.
•Set off “however” at the beginning of or within a sentence when it
is used parenthetically. (See sections 12.7.3 and 12.7.4.1 for more in-
struction on coordinating conjunctions and CMS, sections 5.194, 5.200,
5.201, 6.29, and 6.55.)
However, by an argument similar to the one above,m’s behavior is essen-
tially the same.
Such a regular graph exists by Proposition 3.1, however, sincedn, d(n−Δ).
•Use commas after a long introductory clause (see CMS sections 6.35–
6.36).
Since the Jacobian of the system is the zero matrix at the origin, the
multiplicity must be at least 3 in order for it to be an isolated solution.
•Use a comma to avoid confusion.
It is important to note the different properties of SCLP solutions con-
structed from solutions to AP(P), and AP(P) solutions constructed from
solutions to SCLP.
In general, equilibrium models are reduced to finding consistent prices.
...whereμandνare positive constants which depend only onmandn,
andσ(C):=C{1+ln(1+C)}
−1
.
In the last example, the equation is part of the “where” list; without
the comma after “mandn” the equation could be misread as relating
to “depend only on”.

8612. Editing Text
•Use a comma, not a colon, in the following situations:
The question we now ask is, Are strict and realistic bounds known for the
remainder of the terms? [posed question]
Devo asked the musical question, “Are we not men?” [quoted question]
•See section 13.4 for the use of commas in math.
12.7.2.2.When to delete a comma.
•Delete a comma between the parts of a compound predicate (two or
more verbs that have the same subject); see CMS, section 6.29.
We present our study in several steps, and considerfstrongly convex
and differentiable.
We will also take advantage of the special structures of these prob-
lems and obtain improved computational complexity results whenever pos-
sible.
•Delete a comma before a prepositional phrase; see CMS, sections 5.171,
5.175, and 6.35. For example, delete commas before “if”, “for”, and
“with” in the final clause of a sentence or equation.
•Delete a comma before∀and “for all”.
•Delete the commas in “if, and only if,”.
•See section 13.4 for the use of commas in math.
12.7.3. Semicolon.A semicolon is a bigger break than a comma but less
than either a period or a colon. In scholarly text semicolons are common-
place and helpful; the most frequent uses are listed below. Do not allow
semicolon splices!
1
ConsultThe Chicago Manual of Stylefor semicolon us-
age and guidelines (Chapter 6, sections 6.54–6.58), and for some confusing
examples see section 12.7.4.1 on p. 90.
1
A “splice” is when two independent and “unrelated” clauses are joined by a comma or a
semicolon.

12.7. Punctuation87
•Use a semicolon to separate two independent,relatedclauses that are
not linked by a conjunction.
These must be removed because otherwise the random walk becomes
biased toward visiting vertices that are connected by many edges; our
analysis requires that the random walk be unbiased.
This assumption is required for the approximation results in Sobolev
spaces; see, e.g., [5].
•A semicolon is used to separate independent clauses joined with “thus”,
“hence”, “therefore”, “then”, “however”, and “moreover” (coordinat-
ing conjunctions, see CMS, sections 5.194, 5.200, 5.201, 6.29 and 6.55).
Let us restrict our discussion tom= 2; then we can provide a proof
for Theorem 4.2.
•Use a semicolon between items in complex or lengthy lists (e.g., lists
whose items contain commas within them).
In the row-major indexing,P
i,j
has indexi·n+j;inthecolumn-
major indexing, it has indexi+j·n; and in the reversed row-major
indexing, it has indexi·n+(n−j).
Furthermore,uwill necessarily be even, since each entry vertex
starts withd−d

missing half-edges; sinced−d

is a multiple ofq, hence
even; and since each committed edge replaces a pair of missing half-edges.
•Semicolons and commas are not interchangeable.
Clustering is used in various fields of statistical analysis; pattern
recognition; learning theory; computer graphics; and combinatorial chem-
istry.
12.7.4. Colon.A colon indicates that what comes next is directly related
to the previous sentence. This ranges from a phrase to an independent clause
to a series of statements to a list. The use of capitalization following the
colon gives the reader an idea of how much may be coming. ConsultThe
Chicago Manual of Stylefor colon usage and guidelines (Chapter 6, sections
6.59–6.65).

8812. Editing Text
•A colon introduces a series or list. Use a colon only after a complete
sentence, particularly if the sentence contains the words “the following”
or “as follows”.
We plan to visit the following cities: Rome, Venice, and Florence.
The directions read as follows: stay straight for 400 yards, then bear left
at the fork.
This paper attempts to do the following:
(1) review some of the known methods for mesh selection,
(2) show their connections and propose some new variants,
(3) introduce a new class of robust mesh-selection methods.
However, if the list or series comes after an expression such as
“namely”, “for instance”, “for example”, or “that is”, a colon is used
onlyif the series consists of grammatically complete clauses. See sec-
tion 12.7.4.1 for a deeper discussion.
•A colon introduces a part of a sentence or an equation that exemplifies,
restates, or explains the preceding part. Generally, the word following
the colon begins with a lowercase letter unless it introduces a quotation
or a series of more than one sentence; however, stet the author’s usage
whenever possible.

In computational complexity theory, graph traversal is a fundamental
problem for an additional reason: understanding the complexity of directed
versus undirected graph traversal seems to be the key to understanding
the relationships among deterministic, probabilistic, and nondeterministic
space-bounded algorithms.

a
Hemmerling and others have considered similar models; see Hemmer-
ling’s monograph for an extensive bibliography emphasizing results for
“labyrinths”: graphs embedded in two- or three-dimensional Euclidean
space.

The problem we will be considering is “undirectedst-connectivity”: Given
an undirected graphGand two distinguished verticessandt, determine
if there is a path fromstot. If so, consider the set of alln-vertex, edge-
labeled, undirected graphsG=(V, E) with maximum degreed.
a
This example would be better if the book being referenced was put in parentheses. The colon
can remain.

12.7. Punctuation89
•Authors often use colons to introduce displayed equations and lists.
The result is given in the following equation:
log(n+1)−3n=x+1.
As a specific example, we take the logarithmic-quadratic function
to inherit the following properties:
(a)zis a strictly convex differentiable function,
(b)y=r,
(c)p>qotherwise.
We denote the feasible region for problem (1.1) by Ω:
Ω={x∈R
n
|l≤x≤u}.
The results can be written as:
Ca≥[0].
The volume of a tetrahedron is given by:
1/3×(area of base)×height.
We can also state that:
F(i)=I.
Note that no punctuation is needed before the displayed equations
in any of the three incorrect () examples given.
•Do not insert a colon before the direct object of the verb or before a
predicate nominative. (The incorrect equation examples given above
illustrate this.)
Members of the department include: the undergraduates, graduate
students, and the professors.
•Use periods, not colons, to introduce math items such as theorems and
lemmas.
Our results are summarized in the following theorem.
Theorem2.1.LetXbe a set ....
Our results are summarized in:
Theorem2.1.LetXbe a set ....
Our results are summarized in the following theorem:
Theorem2.1.LetXbe a set ....

9012. Editing Text
•Use a capital letter after a colon in titles of sections.
The Smith theorem: An overview
The rules about complete sentences preceding or following a colon do
not apply in these situations. (See section 8.156 of CMS for a discussion
on sentence-style capitalization.)
12.7.4.1.Comma?Semicolon?Colon? There is a curious intersection where
commas, semicolons, and colons can each be a legitimate option, and it al-
most always involves a list or series. Here we modify a very useful example
from Chapter 6.
In this first iteration, the comma is featured. There is nothingwrong
with this, but it may be a little distracting since “namely” should have a
semicolon preceding it.
It is convenient to split this into three regions, namely, (1) Region A,
n,[n/2]; (2) Region B, [n/3]; (3) Region C, [n/(3·2)],...,[n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
)].
It is not uncommon for authors to include a colon after “namely” when
introducing a list or series. In the following example—because it introduces
a vertical list—it is not strictly wrong, but it is distracting.
It is convenient to split it into three regions, namely:
Region1.n,n/2.
Region2.n/3.
Region3.n/(3·2),...,n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
),....
In Region 1,b
i+1
is eithernorn/2; that is,i=lb−1ori=lb−2.
In both cases, AMS preference is to use a semicolon (or even an em dash)
before “namely” and a comma after it.
ok:
It is convenient to split this into three regions—namely, (1) Region A,
n,[n/2]; (2) Region B, [n/3]; (3) Region C, [n/(3·2)],...,[n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
)].
It is convenient to split it into three regions; namely,
Region1.n,n/2.
Region2.n/3.
Region3.n/(3·2),...,n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
),....
In Region 1,b
i+1
is eithernorn/2; that is,i=lb−1ori=lb−2.
This is in agreement with CMS, sections 6.43, 6.56, 6.85, and also the
last sentence of 6.65. And, as always, if an author uses one construction
consistently, let it stand.

12.7. Punctuation91
12.7.5. Hyphen.Hyphens are used in compound words, most commonly
compound adjectives. These should be noted on your style sheet. For thor-
ough guidance on this topic, put a sticky label on section 7.85 of your CMS
so you can open to it frequently. For hyphenated compound nouns and
treatment of specific words, check your dictionary.
•Some compound words always contain hyphens and appear that way
in the dictionary.
•For mathematical terms,follow the author’s style for compound
words, using hyphens and spaces or closing up words consistently.
Note these on your style sheet. (See Appendix D for more guidance.)
•Hyphenated compounds appearbeforethe noun they modify.
second-order differential operatorsor
differential operators of second order
an ill-posed questionorthe question was ill posed
•A hyphen, not an en dash, is used in pairs of words indicating opposi-
tion.
even-odd system
an apples-oranges kind of choice
a zero-nonzero pattern of solutions
Other style guides (e.g., American Psychological Association) indicate
that words in opposition take an en dash, but the AMS does not endorse
that form.
Here’s an interesting situation:
The idea is to construct sub- (super-) solutions using the maximum
principle.
Stet this construction, although throughout the paper these words are
not hyphenated.
12.7.5.1.When to hyphenate suffixes and prefixes.Refer toThe Chicago
Manual of Stylefor exceptions (CMS, 7.85).
•Hyphenate words formed with the suffix “-type”.
a Newton-type method, a Cauchy–Schwarz-type equation
•Hyphenate words formed with prefixes before a proper noun.
non-Hermitian

9212. Editing Text
12.7.5.2.When to hyphenate compounds, participles, etc.
•Hyphenate adjective plus past participle constructions.
nimble-minded mathematician, well-known study
•Hyphenate noun plus present participle constructions.
decision-making methods
•Hyphenate adjectival compounds.
lower-level toxin
•Hyphenate compounds of degree.
very-low-degree polynomial
12.7.5.3.When not to hyphenate.
•Do not hyphenate words formed with the prefixes “ante-”, “anti-”,
“bi-”, “counter-”, “de-”, “equi-”, “extra-”, “infra-”, “inter-”, “intra-”,
“macro-”, “micro-”, “mid-”, “mini-”, “multi-”, “non-”, “over-”, “pre-”,
“post-”, “pro-”, “pseudo-”, “re-”, “semi-”, “sub-”, “super”, “supra-”,
“trans-”, “tri-”, “ultra-”, “un-”, “under-”.
•Exception: Hyphenate any prefix joined to a word beginning with the
same ending vowel as the prefix; e.g., semi-independent, bi-invariate..
•Do not hyphenate words formed with the suffixes “-fold”, “-hood”,
“-less”, “-wise”.
•Do not hyphenate words commonly read together as a unit.
ice cream cone
•Do not hyphenate after adverbs ending in “-ly” even when used in a
compound modifier.
highly specialized field
•Do not hyphenate “ill” and “well” compounds that are themselves mod-
ified.
very ill conditioned matrix
•Do not hyphenate “th” expressions:xth, notx-th orx
th
.

12.7. Punctuation93
12.7.6. En dash.An en dash is the width of the letter “N”. It most fre-
quently expresses a range, but it has a number of other uses detailed be-
low. ConsultThe Chicago Manual of Stylefor en dash usage and guidelines
(Chapter 6, sections 6.78–6.81).
•The en dash (–) is most commonly used to express a range of numbers.
equations (2.2)–(2.6)
pp. 345–348
Don’t change an en dash to the words “to” or “through”. Change a
hyphen in a range to an en dash.
•Use an en dash between two author names joined in an adjectival con-
struction. (Note that this treatment is more intuitive when one author
has a hyphenated name.)
the Smith–Jones formula
the Birch–Swinnerton-Dyer conjecture
•Use an en dash to form a compound modifier if one of the elements is
hyphenated or consists of more than one word.
mathematician–physicist-directed planning
post–Civil War period
•Use a hyphen, not an en dash, in pairs of words indicating opposition.
even-odd system
an apples-oranges kind of choice
a zero-nonzero pattern of solutions
Other style guides (e.g., American Psychological Association) indicate
that words in opposition take an en dash, but the AMS does not endorse
that form.
12.7.7. Em dash.The em dash is the width of the letter “M”. It is the
most versatile of the three dashes, functioning as comma, parentheses, or a
colon. While in the past it was considered too informal for scholarly text, it
is now in common usage. ConsultThe Chicago Manual of Stylefor em dash
usage and guidelines (Chapter 6, sections 6.82–6.89).
•Use an em dash (—) to set off material for emphasis. In the following
example either a comma or colon would have worked, but each one has
a different level of separation.

9412. Editing Text
The probability that we have found such a configuration isP
0.5
(1000)≈
1−e
−5
=0.99326—a virtual certainty.
•Parenthetical elements can be set off by em dashes. For less emphasis
use parentheses.
This triumvirate—baseball, hot dogs, apple pie—defined America for much
of the 20th century.
12.7.8. Apostrophe.Aside from its traditional uses of forming posses-
sives and indicating contractions, the apostrophe is used in mathematics to
form the plural of a single character variable. ConsultThe Chicago Manual
of Stylefor usage and guidelines for the apostrophe (Chapter 6, sections
6.113–6.115, and other sections noted therein).
•Variables and arabic numbers are made plural by adding an apostrophe
and the letter “s”.
a’s,b’s,c’s;α’s,β’s,γ’s, 1’s, 2’s, 3’s, etc.
•Plurals of acronyms do not contain apostrophes; for example, write
PDEs, not PDE’s.
•The AMS prefers to avoid the use of contractions.
•When making a possessive from a name ending in “s”, add an apostro-
phe and “s”. This is an evolution of former guidance from the CMS.
Gauss’s ideas, Descartes’s dreams, Eratosthenes’s sieve, Wiles’s solution
12.7.9. Quotation marks.Quotation marks are used both for quotations
and for emphasis.
•Use double quotation marks around direct quotes and to set off orig-
inal or unusual words (which are called “scare quotes”). Do not use
quotation marks around words or phrases that follow the expression
“so-called”.
A maximum partition matching can be constructed from a simpler “pre-
matching” on the elements inU. If the number of subsets in the collection
Sis small, we develop a greedy algorithm that uses a “chain justification”
technique.

12.9. Gender-neutral and bias-free language95
•Single quotation marks are usedonlywithin double quototation marks.
“His exact words were, ‘I’ll be there at noon’,” said Elisa.
•The AMS uses a logical style for commas and periods, meaning they
falloutsidequotation marks. This is a break with most other styles.
Colons and semicolons, however, still fall outside quotes. Question
marks and exclamation points go inside quotes only when part of the
quoted material.
Einstein conceded that his proof failed in the special case treated by Levi-
Civita and offered to “include the corrections I have learned from our
memorable correspondence”.
Poincar ́e asked, “Can we state mechanical facts by relating them to a
non-Euclidean space?”
The AMS prefers italics over scare quotes, but some authors seem to want
multiple levels of emphasis. Our guidance is to use italics for a word that
will be defined and to use scare quotes for words being used in an unusual
way. This is a moment for flexibility, however, and consistency within a
paper is what matters most. Note your choices on the style sheet if there is
any deviation.
12.8. Quotations
Direct quotations of five or more lines should be block indented. Ask the
compositor to use thequoteL
A
T
E
X environment, which indents the quoted
material about 3 picas on either side. Consult CMS, Chapter 13, for addi-
tional guidance as needed.
12.9. Gender-neutral and bias-free language
The AMS prefers to avoid the use of gender-specific terms whenever possible.
Luckily, “mathematician” is in the clear! Here are a few pointers. The use
of they/their isnotan acceptable substitute for he/him or she/her. Some
authors prefer to use she/her everywhere, while others prefer to alternate
between he/his and she/her. It is also possible to use “he or she” or “his or
her” when such use is limited—it becomes unwieldy when used repeatedly.
For deeper and more varied guidance, please see CMS, sections 5.221–5.230,
and especially 5.225.

9612. Editing Text
12.10. Miscellaneous applications
There are a number of consistent problems when editing ESL works. Chief
among them are problems in using articles. Keep in mind that articles
are adjectives, and they describe the noun they modify. In the following
examples, the meaning of an article is intuitively clear to native speakers,
but they pose outsize problems in ESL works:
•The combinatorial interpretation of Muchnik’s theorem...
(The one and only)
•A combinatorial interpretation of Muchnik’s theorem...
(One of many)
•Combinatorial interpretation of Muchnik’s theorem...
(A discussion of how it’s done)
Within mathematical text the misuse of an article can alter the meaning
of a sentence. Therefore, these are not simple edits. If you have any suspicion
that there may be shades of meaning, query the author.
Not infrequently the copy editor will have to make decisions about whether
to use “a” or “an”. If the article appears before a word beginning with a
consonant sound, use “a”—a univalent thingie. If the word requiring the
article begins with a vowel sound, use “an”—an honorary degree, ann-
dimensional doodad, anω-level widget. But the AMS does prefer words
beginning with a pronounced “h” be preceded by “a”—a historical remark.
While “mathematics” and “asymptotics” always have an “s” at the end,
other similar terms do not: “statistics” is different from “statistic”; “arith-
metic” and “arithmetics” are both used. If you cannot be certain which is
correct, query the author.
“The number is...” but “a number are...”.

Chapter 13
Editing Mathematics
The rules of good grammar and correct punctuation also apply when editing
mathematics. However, mathematics should be edited as lightly as possi-
ble to ensure the author’s meaning or the mathematics isn’t changed. What
may seem like an insignificant editorial change may in fact change the math-
ematical sense of a statement.
The copy editor should make sure that the notation is consistent, that
fences match, that linebreaks within mathematical expressions are correct,
and that other rules in this chapter are followed. Keep in mind that the AMS
uses L
A
T
E
X to typeset all journal articles, so spacing around mathematical
elements is automated and generally should not need to be changed.
13.1. Numbers
•Generally, spell out single-digit numbers and use digits for 10 and above
when they appear in the text. However, for numbers less than 10, note
the author’s use of numerals and spelled-out numbers for any patterns
and mark these on the style sheet. For instance, some common phrases
that include an acceptable use of single-digit numbers are “rank 1” or
“rank one”, “codimension 2” or “codimension two”, “3-dimensional”
or “three-dimensional”. The use of single digits is acceptable if used
consistently.
In most cases, you should stet the author’s use of a numeral
or a spelled-out number.
97

9813. Editing Mathematics
•Numerals, including roman numerals (I, IV, XII), are always set roman
no matter what the surrounding text font environment is. For instance,
in italic text:
Correct:For any integersk>1,2,...,and anyn≥1,2,...,there exists
a minimal positive integer.
Correct:Assume thatFis uniformly convex of TypeI.
13.2. Variables
•Math variables are generally italic (f) but may appear as bold roman
(f), bold italic (f), roman (f), German (fraktur) (f), calligraphic (F),
or blackboard bold (F). Stet the author’s usage, but change fake or
“poor man’s” blackboard bold to true blackboard bold, such as IP to
P; see Appendix E.
Roman and italic variables:
E[d
(j)
(w, R, x%Y, Y)−e
(j)
(w, R, Y)] =δ
(j)
0
(w).
Bold and italic variables:

j∈{0,...,k
n
−1}
c
j
≥k
n
p
n
−k
2/3
n
=m
n
+k
n
2/3
.
Bold, italic, roman, and calligraphic variables:
L
1
(D,E)=

x∈S
|Pr[D(x)]−Pr[E(x)]|/2.
13.3. Standard abbreviated forms of mathematical
expressions (inf,max,min, etc.) and functions
(sin,cos,tan,etc.)
•See Appendix A for a comprehensive, though not exhaustive, list of
functions and expressions that are ordinarily set in roman type—in
both roman and italic text.
•Mathematical expressions and functions are set as roman rather than
italic characters so that they will not be confused with mathematical
variables.
Correct:Theorem8.5.Assume that the sequence{ρ
k
}is bounded and
lim
k→∞
|C
k
|=0.
Incorrect:Theorem8.5.Assume that the sequence{ρ
k
}is bounded and
lim
k→∞
|C
k
|=0.
•Mark functions and expressions to be roman if set in italics and list on
the style sheet.

13.3. Mathematical expressions and functions99
•Some expressions can begin with capital or lowercase letters. For in-
stance, ker and Ker can stand for two different types of kernel, so the
author’s use should be kept.
•Expressions and functions are followed by a thin space unless followed
by an argument enclosed in fences, in which case the space is closed
up.
dime
3,0
,maxθ, p,Aut
C
(V)
•Author-created functions (those not included in Appendix A) may be
italic. Treat them consistently.
Acceptable:Assume that (u
1
,v
1
)∈Ef,(u
2
,v
2
)∈Eb, andlev(u
1
)=
lev(u
2
).
(Herelevis an author-created function.)
•Stet italic superscript and subscript functions if used consistently.
Acceptable:If a crossing is forced, then there existyonP(wx
min
) and a
nodez∈T
y
with dim(z)=dim(wx
max
).
•Subscripts are placed alongside, not beneath, functions in text.
Correct:max
ˆ
P∈C
N−k+2
min
̃
P∈C
k
ρ(
̃
P
ˆ
P)=λ
k
.
•∀(which means “for all”) and∃(which means “there exists”) are log-
ical symbols which should generally not appear in text unless in a
mathematical expression. In text use “for all” and “there exists”.
Correct:There exists ann-dimensional compact complex manifoldXwith
c
1
(X)≥0.
Incorrect:∃ann-dimensional compact complex manifoldXwithc
1
(X)
≥0.
Correct:For all integersk≥0 we know thatH
k
(X)∈T
n
.
Correct:We know thatH
k
(X)∈T
n
∀k≥0.
Incorrect:∀integersk≥0 we know thatH
k
(X)∈T
n
.

10013. Editing Mathematics
•Stet spacing around∀and∃.
Preferred:A semirandom source with parameterαoutputs bits
X
1
X
2
,...,X
R
such that∀x
1
,...,x
i
∈z, αholds.
Acceptable:IfX=(X
1
,...,X
n
) is sampled uniformly at random fromS,
then∀b
1
,b
2
,...,b
3
∈{0,1}the following holds.
13.4. Punctuation
•Each mathematics equation reads as a clause or sentence and is punc-
tuated accordingly. Authors, however, sometimes leave displayed math
unpunctuated. Insert commas and periods as needed so that the equa-
tion(s), the preceding text, and the following text together read gram-
matically.Follow CMS, sections 12.18–12.20, for punctuating
mathematical expressions and elided lists, operators, and re-
lations.
•Set off conditions with commas. A condition is a phrase that restricts
an item within an equation.
Correct:
z
k
=Φ
−1
(e
iθ
k
),k=1,...,n+1,
Correct:SinceL
−1
is triangular, the computation ofL
−i
A, i=1,...,m,
takesmn
3
+O(max{m, n}
3
) flops.
•Delete commas appearing before∀or “for all”. However, . . .
•. . . stet commas enclosing a parenthetical “for all” phrase that precedes
the relevant equation.
Correct:Then (4.2) shows that, for allx<0, the restriction would be
T
0
≤T
1
.
•Do not use a comma before verbal expressions after math, such asif,
when,for,such that. Do use a comma beforewhere, however, because
it usually begins a nonrestrictive phrase.
Incorrect:f=2(x), ifx<1
Incorrect:...a
i
=a
j
+a
k
for somek≤j<i, such that for everyi≥1,
...

13.4. Punctuation101
•If consistent, stet the author’s use of commas in numbers of four digits
or more: 1000 or 1,000, 23000 or 23,000. Ensure that usage within
tables is consistent with the text.
•Don’t add a comma after every displayed equation that does not end
with a period. Consider the surrounding text. Recall that a comma
never precedesfor all,∀, or a preposition.
•Two displayed equations separated by the word “and” may form a
compound predicate, so do not add a comma before the “and”.
Proof of Corollary1.5. We have seen from the proof of Corollary 6.7 that
there existsr>0 such that forQ
j
∩B(z, r)=∅,
g(A
dist(z,Q
j
)
(z)) =G
D
(A
dist(z,Q
j
)
(z),x
0
)*Φ(dist(z, Q
j
))
1/2
and
g(x
j
)=G
D
(x
j
,x
0
)*Φ(dist(Q
j
,∂D))
1/2
.
•Use a serial comma with three or more displayed equations.
•Do not use a comma before prepositions within equations.
Correct:
E:=

x∈X: lim sup
t0
$f(x+tu)−f(x)$
t
<∞for everyu∈X

Correct:Iffis Gˆateaux differentiable aty∈H,thenDf(y, u)=
̃
Df(y, u)
for everyu∈Y.
•Punctuate each line of a left-braced multiline equation. Do not punc-
tuate lines within a right-braced equation, but stet if the author did
so.
Correct:
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
Df(y, u+v)≤
̃
Df(y, u),
Df(y, v)=f

(y, u)+Df(y, v),
̃
Df(y, u+v)≥−
D(−f)(y, u),
̃
Df(y, v)=f

(y, u)−Df(y, v),
Correct:
Df(y, u+v)≤
̃
Df(y, u)
Df(y, v)=f

(y, u)+Df(y, v)
̃
Df(y, u+v)≥−
D(−f)(y, u)
̃
Df(y, v)=f

(y, u)−Df(y, v)
⎫
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎬
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎭

10213. Editing Mathematics
•Don’t introduce a displayed equation with a colon if the introductory
sentence continues after the equation. It’s okay to use a colon if the
equation is followed immediately by a “where” list or other qualifiers
or conditions directly related to the equation.
Correct:Treating the problem naively, the equations of motion become
m
dv
dt
∈mgsinθ−mgcosθSgnv
"
μ
dynamic
ifv=0,
μ
static
ifv=0,
and the right-hand side contains the right-hand side for the original friction
model (1.1).
Correct:Part of these computations involve forming the differential mea-
sure of the energy:
d

1
2
v
T
M(q)v+V(q)

=
1
2
(v
+
+v
−
)M(q)dv+
1
2
v
T

d
dt
M(q)

vdt,
where the first term comes from a result of Moreau.
Incorrect:This gives differential equations and inclusions:
dq
dt
=
1
m
p,
dp
dt
∈−∂ψ(q)−g,
but note that∂ψ(q)={0}ifq>0,∂ψ(q)=R
+
ifq= 0, and∂ψ(q)=∅
ifq<0.
Correct:This gives differential equations and inclusions:
dq
dt
=
1
m
p,
dp
dt
∈−∂ψ(q)−g.
Note, however, that∂ψ(q)={0}ifq>0,∂ψ(q)=R
+
ifq= 0, and
∂ψ(q)=∅ifq<0.
13.5. Line dots (ldots) and centered dots (cdots)
To mark these edits, the copy editor should circle the incorrect dot form and
write either “ldots” or “cdots”, as appropriate, in the right margin.
•Line dots (ldots) are used between variables with other punctuation.
0,...,n−1.

13.6. Fences103
•Centered dots (cdots) are used between operators and relations.
0<···<2,x
1
+x
2
+···+x
n
.
Exception:a
1
·a
2
·...·a
n
is the preferred form here for readability.
•Stet the location of dots if there are no commas or operators.
π(1,i)(u)=(a
(1)
1
···a
(1)
j−1
).
•Change ellipses (...) to ldots.
13.6. Fences
•Several types of fences are used in mathematics. The most common
are the following:
Parentheses ( ) Brackets [ ] Braces{}
Angle bracketsSingle bars||Double bars$$
•Change the incorrect use of less than and greater than symbols (<and
>) when angle brackets ()aremeant.
f◦g

(t)=f(g(t))(g

(t)) not<f◦g>

(t)=f(g(t))(g

(t))
•Fences are usually used in pairs but occasionally are used in combina-
tions such as the following:
(a, b][a, b)[a, b[
Stet this usage.
•Fences must occur in pairs. When editing, count the fences to make
sure that every opening fence has a closing fence. If one is missing, add
it (if it is obvious where it goes) or query the author.
Note that a single vertical bar may appear in constructs such as
X={x
i
∈N|i=1,...,n}.
In this case, the vertical bar denotes “such that” and should not be
confused with absolute value notation (e.g.,|α|). Stet the author’s
usage in this case.
•Fences in math are always set roman.
•Avoid breaking math in text between fences. See section 13.16.
•Fences should preferably be normal size in text, even though fractions,
subscripts, or superscripts may extend past them in displays.

10413. Editing Mathematics
•Fences should preferably be as large as the material they enclose in
displays.
Preferred:
B
n
logB
n
logT

(n)
=o

β
n
·
log logT

(n)
logT

(n)

=o(1).
Acceptable if consistent:
B
n
logB
n
logT

(n)
=o(β
n
·
log logT

(n)
logT

(n)
)=o(1).
•Do not increase fences to encompass superscripts and subscripts, but
stet if the author did so.
Acceptable:
k
n
c
n
−H(f

k
n
(X

),b
k
n
(X

,Y

))
Acceptable:
k
n
c
n
−H

f

k
n
(X

),b
k
n
(X

,Y

)

Acceptable:
E
#

j∈{0,...,k
n
−1}

(j)
$
≥2ρk
n
=δ
n
/8
Acceptable:
E
⎡
⎣

j∈{0,...,k
n
−1}

(j)
⎤
⎦
≥2ρk
n
=δ
n
/8
•For expressions within multiline displays, be sure opening and closing
fences that are on different lines are the same size (see p. 119).
13.7. Sums (

) and products (

)
These are usually designated by a 14-point symbol in text and a larger size
(usually 20-point) in display.
•In text, set subscripts and superscripts to the right of the symbol, while
in display set them above and below the symbol.
IN TEXT:

∞
a=1

∞
a=1
IN DISPLAY:
∞

a=1
∞

a=1

13.8. Unions(∪,

)and intersections(∩,

)105
Table 1.Symbols that are similar in appearance but that
have different meanings
Symbol Symbol Definition
Σ

cap Sigma and summation
Π

cap Pi and product
∪

union: small (conjunction) and big (noun)
∩

intersection: small (conjunction) and big (noun)
φΦlowercase phi and capital Phi
φ∅,∅lowercase phi and empty set
,ε∈lowercase epsilon and member sign
,<,>angle brackets and less than, greater than signs

’prime and apostrophe
llowercase ital “el” and lowercase script “el”
x×lowercase “ex” and times sign
aαlowercase ital “a” and lowercase Greek alpha
dδlowercase ital “d” and lowercase Greek delta
pρlowercase ital “p” and lowercase Greek rho
vνlowercase ital “vee” and lowercase Greek nu
wωlowercase ital “w” and lowercase Greek omega
•Stet expressions such as
N

i=1

,
where the prime has a specific meaning and should not be moved.
•Stet small summations or products in the numerators and denomina-
tors of stacked fractions (be consistent within the equation).
D
i
(x)=
α
i
r
i
(x)

y
α
i
r
i
(y)
•Know the difference between capital Sigma “Σ” and summation “

”
or capital Pi “Π” and product “

”, and mark for corrections if wrong.
Query the author if you are unsure. (Also, see Table 1.)
13.8. Unions (∪,

) and intersections (∩,

)
These are usually designated by a 10-point (small) or 14-point (big) symbol
in text and a larger size (usually 10-point for small and 20-point for big) in
display. (The same general rules here apply for small∧,∨,⊗, and⊕and
for big
)
,
*
,
+
, and
,
.)

10613. Editing Mathematics
•Unions and intersections have “small” (conjunction) and “big” (noun)
sizes in text and displays. Placement of subscripts and superscripts is
treated similarly to sums and products.
“small” (conjunction) in text:f
1
∪f
2
∪f
3
∪···f
1
∩f
2
∩f
3
∩···
“small” (conjunction) in display:f
1
∪f
2
∪f
3
∪···f
1
∩f
2
∩f
3
∩···
“big” (noun) in text:

∞
n=1
f
n

∞
n=1
f
n
“big” (noun) in display:
∞

n=1
f
n
∞

n=1
f
n
•Mark sizing of union and intersection symbols if incorrect. “Big” union
and intersection symbols denote the union or intersection of several or
infinitely many sets.
Examples of small symbols (conjunctions); same size in text and display:
β
g
−1
(A

)∩β
g
−2
(A

)∩···∩β
g
−n
(A

)=β
G
(A

),
x⊗
A
Ae: TailsA→TailseAe:x⊗
eAe
eA
In the second example above, the small “otimes” symbol (⊗) carries
a subscript, which is more typical of the large noun form (
+
). However,
in this example, it is a conjunction—notice how it falls between “x” and
“Ae”. The subscript is NOT diagnostic of noun or conjunction forms!
Its position between two variables is how the copyeditor identifies it as
a conjunction (or, in mathematical language, a binary operator).
Examples of big symbols (nouns) in text:

g∈I
D

g
⊆A

(

g∈I
D

g
),
C:=A
e

α
e
G=
,
g∈G
C
g
Examples of big symbols (nouns) in display:

g∈I
D

g
⊆A



g∈I
D

g

,
C:=A
e

α
e
G=

g∈G
C
g
13.9. Integrals
These are usually designated by a 14-point symbol in text and a larger size
(usually 26-point) in display.

13.10. Fractions107
•In text, set subscripts and superscripts to the right of the integral
symbol:ν(φ
0
)−ν(φ
T
)=
-
T
0
C(φ
t
)dt.
In displays, the subscripts and superscripts may be set to the right
of the symbol or may be centered above and below them. Stet the
author’s usage.

b
a

A

A

A

A

A

∞
−∞
∞

−∞

1
0

1
0

A

A
•Stet small integrals in the numerators and denominators of stacked
fractions (be consistent within the equation).
D
i
(x)=
α
i
r
i
(x)
-
y
α
i
r
i
(y)
13.10. Fractions
•Do not alter or break fractions. If a large fraction overruns the margin
in a display, query the author for the proper fix; if it overruns the mar-
gin in text, move it to the following line or display the full expression.
•Fractions in text may be case (stacked) or slashed.
Case fraction:LetA
i
be the depth ofX
i
in the N-tree so that
1
n

n
i=1
A
i
is the average successful search time.
Slashed fraction:LetA
i
be the depth ofX
i
in the N-tree so that
(1/n)

n
i=1
A
i
is the average successful search time.
•Stet case fractions in superscripts and subscripts if leading is not ex-
cessive.
Acceptable:Koch showed that if each packet independently chooses a ran-
dom destination, then the expected number of packets that get through is
Θ(N/log
1
q
N). However, permutations may arise.
•Fractions need not be consistent (either case or slashed) throughout a
paper, just within a math phrase.
•In slashed fractions, stet parentheses or lack of parentheses—1/2a+b
or 1/2(a+b)—unless the same construction is inconsistent within the
paper, in which case query the author.

10813. Editing Mathematics
•Mark fractions set as display style within text to be text style.
Correct (text style):
Furthermore,f
∗
(t)=
b−λ
1
sP
b
. Consequently, 1 =f
∗
≤
b−λ
1
sP
b
.
Incorrect (display style):
Furthermore,f
∗
(t)=
b−λ
1
sP
b
. Consequently, 1 =f
∗
≤
b−λ
1
sP
b
.
Correct (text style):
. . . must occur, whereg=
d+(q−2b)f−(b−1)k−(b−1)logN
b
.First,...
Incorrect (display style):
. . . must occur, whereg=
d+(q−2b)f−(b−1)k−(b−1) logN
b
.
First, . . .
•Stet stacked or case fractions within displayed equations. Fractions do
not need to be treated consistently throughout the paper.
Stacked fractions:
∞

s=1
1
3

2
3

s−1
sn≤4n
Case fraction:
pr(E
v
)>
1
3
log
6
Δ
•Slashed fractions should not be changed.
Slashed fractions:
L((2i−1)π/n),L((2j−1)π/n),L((2k−1)π/n),
E{L}=(n−1)P{B(n−1,1/(n−1)) = 2}
•Stet case and slashed fractions in superscripts and subscripts in dis-
played math. They need not be the same style as the full-size fractions
but should be styled consistently within the same display.
Case fractions:
X(z)=
1
2πi

−
3
2
+i∞
−
3
2
−i∞
Slashed fractions:
c
j
≥k
n
p
n
−k
2/3
n
=m
n
+k
2/3
n
,
SP⊆RC[N
1/4
/b,2
N
1/4
/b
]

13.11. Cases109
•Stet small integrals and summations in the numerators and denomina-
tors of stacked fractions.
v
0
,...,v
k
=v
0
of

k
i=1
C
v
i−1
,v
i

k
i=1
C
v
i
,v
i−1
•Stet case fractions in the numerators and denominators of stacked frac-
tions.
h=
1
1
a
+
1
b
=
ab
a+b
13.11. Cases
•Lines within the cases environment should be separated by a comma
(or semicolon if used consistently) and end with a comma or period,
depending on the following text.
|a|=
.
a,a≥0,
−a, a <0.
OR|a|=
.
a,a≥0;
−a, a <0.
f(x)=
.
1ifx≥0,
0otherwise,
ORf(x)=
.
1ifx≥0;
0otherwise,
in some neighborhood...
•Add commas before conditions unless the condition begins with text,
as in the second pair of examples above. Stet commas before conditions
beginning with text if author’s use is consistent.
•Cases should appear as displays. If there are line overruns within a
displayed case environment, such as
B
RR
(x;u
1
,[a
0
,b
0
],u
2
)=
.
e
u/
D(a())e
−a()/
+
-
a()
u
f

(t)e
−t/
dt, x∈Ω
R
(u
1
,a
0
),
e
−u/
D(b())e
b()/
+
-
u
b()
f

(t)e
t/
dt,x∈Ω
R
(b
0
,u
2
),
then the condition may be set on a separate line or the preceding
expression can be broken:
B
RR
(x;u
1
,[a
0
,b
0
],u
2
)=
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
e
u/
D(a())e
−a()/
+
-
a()
u
f

(t)e
−t/
dt,
x∈Ω
R
(u
1
,a
0
),
e
−u/
D(b())e
b()/
+
-
u
b()
f

(t)e
t/
dt,
x∈Ω
R
(b
0
,u
2
),

11013. Editing Mathematics
or
B
RR
(x;u
1
,[a
0
,b
0
],u
2
)=
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
e
u/
D(a())e
−a()/
+
-
a()
u
f

(t)e
−t/
dt, x∈Ω
R
(u
1
,a
0
),
e
−u/
D(b())e
b()/
+
-
u
b()
f

(t)e
t/
dt,x∈Ω
R
(b
0
,u
2
),
•The space before the condition is set automatically and should not
generally be changed.
13.12. Matrices
•Stet two-row matrices, with or without superscripts and subscripts, in
text. Display matrices of more than two rows.
Two-row matrices:
Using the inequality

x
y

≤(ex/y)
y
to bound

L+g
g

and

g+k
g

, and using

x
y

≤x
y
/y! to bound

2
d
i
b

, the product is at most . . .
Three-row matrix:
Another possibility is

x1x1
x21x22
x31x32

, as shown in [14].
The three-row matrix should be marked to be displayed.
⎛
⎝
x1x1
x21x22
x31x32
⎞
⎠
•Do not increase the size of fences in text to fully enclose a matrix; doing
so may cause excessive linespread. Mark large fences around in-text
matrices to be text style.
Correct:The determinant ofMis an antisymmetric polynomial of de-
gree (
d+1
2
) + 1 in the variablesx
i
, and it is divisible by (x
i
−x
j
) for all
i<j.
Incorrect:The determinant ofMis an antisymmetric polynomial of
degree

d+1
2

+ 1 in the variablesx
i
, and it is divisible by (x
i
−x
j
) for all
i<j.
•Matrices should never be broken. If a displayed matrix runs over the
margin, mark to reduce the point size to fit the margin. The compositor
will determine which of several L
A
T
E
X options to use.

13.13. Diagrams111
13.13. Diagrams
•Unlike displayed equations, it is acceptable to omit punctuation from
diagrams. Add a colon to the preceding text if the diagram is unpunc-
tuated and ends a sentence.
Acceptable:All these groups are affine algebraic and are related to each
other via the following commutative diagram:
1

H

Aut
H
(X
̄
)

Bir
2
(X)

1
1

H

=
Aut
H
(

X)

⊆
Aut(X)

⊆
1;
see [2, Thm. 2.1].
Acceptable:All these groups are affine algebraic and are related to each
other via the following commutative diagram:
1

H

Aut
H
(X
̄
)

Bir
2
(X)

1
1

H

=
Aut
H
(

X)

⊆
Aut(X)

⊆
1
(see [2, Thm. 2.1]).
Acceptable:The following diagram commutes:
C
∞
c
(
3
W
ι
)
π(f)
|

W
ι
−−−−−→C
∞
(
3
W
ι
)
φ
∗
ι
4
⏐
⏐
4
⏐
⏐
φ
∗
ι
C
∞
c
(W
ι
)
A
ι
f
−−−−→C
∞
(W
ι
)
Acceptable:Then there is an isomorphism (φ, ψ)ofK-graded algebras
fitting into the commutative diagram:
S
(φ,ψ)

(π
1
,κ
1
)









S
(π
2
,κ
2
)








R
In particular, . . .

11213. Editing Mathematics
The following example shows an unacceptable placement of ending
punctuation. Mark the period to be deleted.
Unacceptable:Then there is an isomorphism (φ, ψ)ofK-graded algebras
fitting into the commutative diagram:
S
(φ,ψ)

(π
1
,κ
1
)









S
(π
2
,κ
2
)









R
.
In particular, . . .
•Treat diagrams consistently within an article.
13.14. Equation numbers
The AMS allows authors discretion in setting displayed math. Displayed
equations may be numbered or not. Numbering may be sequential through-
out the paper, such as (1), (2), or by section, such as (1.1),(1.2),...,(3.1),
(3.2). Equations can be numbered concurrently with any other elements.
•Equation numbers are not required. Do not add numbers to unnum-
bered equations.
•Equation numbers are set to the left of displayed math. Move equation
numbers that are set to the right.
•The vertical location of equation numbers should be retained if the
placement is not confusing. An equation number may align with the
first or last line of an equation or may be centered vertically on the
equation.
•Displayed equations should be left as the author has grouped them
unless they run over the margin.
•Letters and words may be used as equation numbers.
(C)b
i
=
"
n/(3·2
lb−(i+2)
,0≤i≤lb−t−2,
n/2
lb−i
,lb−t−1≤i≤lb.
Stet the font of the letter or word both in the display and when men-
tioned in text (but do ensure that the style for the same equation name
is consistent throughout).
•In cross-references, equation numbers are enclosed in roman parenthe-
ses to match the original label and the parentheses are always roman.

13.15. Spacing in displays113
13.15. Spacing in displays
•L
A
T
E
X will adjust spacing above and below displayed equations. If there
is extra space above or below so that the spacing is not equal, mark to
reduce space (usually uneven space occurs above the equation and is
caused by a blank line before the equation code in the source file).
•Fix line overruns.
•Fix text or math that is touching—between lines or between characters.
•There is a two-quad (four-letter) space between two separate equations
on one line and between an equation and a condition on that equation.
However, if the author consistently used just one quad (two-letter)
space, stet.
Correct:
γ

(s)=
∞

n=b+1
f
n
n!
s(s+1)···(s+n−1)
n−1

i=0
1
s+i
,s/∈{−2,−3,...,−b}.
Correct:
T[x
i
, ̄x
i
]≥2r,T[x
i
,h
i
]≤r
Acceptable:
T[v, x
i
]≤r+1,T[v, ̄x
i
]≤r+1 for alli
•Three or more separate equations on the same line are separated by a
quad space.
T[x
i
, ̄x
i
]≥2r−δ, T[x
i
,h
i
]≤r+δ, T[ ̄x
i
,h
i
]≤r+δ
•A preposition has a quad space before and a word space after.
Correct:
X
i
(z)=

π(i)z
1−(1−π(i))z

b
fori<j
•Spacing is consistent around conjunctions. A word space, a quad space,
or a two-quad space is acceptable as long as it’s consistent on both sides.
•Stet spacing around operators and before punctuation in displays unless
it’s extremely tight or loose.

11413. Editing Mathematics
•Stet spacing of equations and phrases bracketed by a left brace as long
as it’s consistent and not confusing.
Correct:
⎧
⎨
⎩
u
t
−δu
xxt
+auu
x
=0,(x, t)∈Ω×(0,t
1
),
u=0,(x, t)∈∂Ω×(0,t
1
),
u(x,0) =φ(x),x∈Ω.
•Stet spacing around math expressions and functions.
13.16. Breaking equations in text
•L
A
T
E
X will automatically break most math expressions correctly across
lines in text, but bad line breaks are still a common occurrence and
need the copy editor’s attention. Most expressions are broken around
an operator in text. A quick reference to which symbols are classi-
fied as operators and how to translate symbols into parts of speech is
outlined below. This table also appears in Chapter 12 because of its
foundational importance in learning how to edit mathematical text.
Operators:
Verbs:==<>≤≥≺≤≥⊂⊃∈≡≡∼∼

∼
=
→←⇒⇔∈
Conjunctions:+−×
̇
+∓∪∩∨∧·◦⊕⊗
Fences:{}[]()||$$
Nouns: italic, Greek, German, Hebrew, and Cyrillic letters; numerals
Sigma-class symbols:
Collective signs:

Integral:

See CMS, Table 12.1, for a more complete list; see also Table 1 on
p. 105 for symbols that can be confused based on size.
In the examples below (taken from [MIT, section 3.2.2]), a
indicates an allowable break.
•Although L
A
T
E
X breaks math expressions after an operator in text, to
fix a bad line break, expressions may be broken before or after an
operator (or after a comma or semicolon) thatdoes notoccur between
fences:

13.16. Breaking equations in text115
•An equation may be broken at any word space (thick space):
If there is a choice, it is better to break at a thick space than before
an operator.
•After a collective sign, no break is allowed until an operator occurs
outside of fences:
•Afteranintegralsign(
-
), no break is allowed until adoccurs; then
break after the next punctuation or at a verb.
Exception:
-
dx+dy(no break allowed).
•When a set of fences is followed directly by another set of fences, the
equation may be broken between them, provided a times sign or a
centered dot is inserted:
Exceptions:
(1) This rule does not apply if the fences are preceded by a sigma-
class symbol.
(2) Do not break at the slash (/) in a slashed fraction.
(3) This rule does not apply to logic (see p. 13.16.1).
•Equations may be broken before or after an operator (or after a comma
or semicolon) that occurs between fences if both of the following con-
ditions are present:
(1) if one of the opening fences (that has not closed) isnotpreceded
directly by a noun, a fence, or sigma-class symbol, and
(2) if the subsequent closing fences arenotfollowed directly by a
noun or a fence.
It is good policy, however, to avoid breaking equations between
fences whenever possible.

11613. Editing Mathematics
•Don’t run in an equation the author has displayed; however, you may
display an in-text equation to fix a bad line break.
13.16.1. Rules for mathematical logic.The rules for breaking mathe-
matical expressions in logic are not always the same as for other branches of
mathematics. Generally, expressions should not be broken within fences and
should be broken before verbs and conjunctions. In logic “&” and “→”have
more weight than in other fields of mathematics. Considering the English
equivalent of some symbols might help the copy editor in making correct
breaks:
⇒and→meanimplies⇔meansif and only if
& and∧meanand;∨meansor.
All three are conjunctions which might take precedence over a verb for break-
ing purposes.
¬meansit is not true that;∃meansthere exists;∀meansfor all.
Breaks occur before rather than after these symbols.
Do not use either a times sign or a centered dot when breaking at a fence;
break without any added notation:
Note that in the mathematical logic examples above, it would be wrong to
break at the =,=, or∈signs.
13.17. Breaking and aligning equations in displays
•The AMS does not require authors to use an AMS journal style file,
so many papers are submitted with margins that differ from the AMS
standard. Many times this leads to equations not fitting within the
margin after the AMS style file is applied. Copy editors will need to
indicate to the compositor where to break equations that overrun the
margin.Do not rebreak equations that do not overrun the
margin.
In general, breaking equations in displays follows the same rules as
breaking equations in text except that, in displays, equations may be
broken before an operator butnotafter an operator. Breaking displays
tends to be more difficult because the more complicated material is
usually set into display instead of text.

13.17. Breaking and aligning equations in displays117
•Stet the alignment of multiline or multiequation displays if the author
appears to have intentionally aligned them on the left or right, on the
verb sign, or centered them, if the sense is clear and they do not overrun
the margin.
•If a line overruns the margin by less than 1 pica, mark for negative
space around the operators and instruct the compositor to squeeze the
line.
•Operators should not appear at the end of lines in displayed equations.
Either remove if repeated at beginning of next line or move to the
beginning of the next line.
Correct:
0=k
Λ
(k(ρ(x)),k(ρ(y))
= lim
n→∞
k
Λ
(φ
m
n
(k(x)),φ
m
n
(k(y))).
Incorrect:
0=k
Λ
(k(ρ(x)),k(ρ(y)) =
= lim
n→∞
k
Λ
(φ
m
n
(k(x)),φ
m
n
(k(y))).
•Align multiline equations on operators: verbs are aligned with each
other and conjunctions are aligned with each other (see section 13.16
for a list of operators).
– Break and align on verbs.
=
=
≤
=
If there is a long expression before the first verb, align succeeding
verbs with a two-em quad indent from the left.
=
=
=
≤
or
=
≥
=
Example:
0=k
Λ
(k(ρ(x)),k(ρ(y)) = lim
n→∞
k
Λ
(k(f
m
n
(x)),k(f
m
n
(y)))
= lim
n→∞
k
Λ
(φ
m
n
(k(x)),φ
m
n
(k(y))) =k
Λ
(k(x),k(y)).

11813. Editing Mathematics
Example:
k
Λ
(k(ρ(x)),k(ρ(y)) = lim
n→∞
k
Λ
(k(f
m
n
(x)),k(f
m
n
(y)))
= lim
n→∞
k
Λ
(φ
m
n
(k(x)),φ
m
n
(k(y))) =k
Λ
(k(x),k(y)).
Example:
6
6
6
6

R
n
f(x)g
N
(x)dμ(x)
6
6
6
6
≤
∞

k=1
|λ
k
|$a
k
$
L
q
μ


S
k
|g
N
(x)−m
S
k
(g
N
)|
q

dμ(x)

1/q

≤
∞

k=1
|λ
k
|μ(S
k
)
1−1/p

1
μ(S
k
)

S
k
|g
N
(x)−m
S
k
(g
N
)|
q

dμ(x)

1/q

.
– Break at conjunctions and align to the right of the first
verb.
=
+
−
×
Example:
ED
m
(D
m
−1) =
3
W(m)
m
+O(1) +
1
h
2
1
log
2
m
+2
1
h
1

h
2
−h
2
1
h
2
1
−
1
h
1
γ

(−1) +
γ−1
h
1

logm
−2

k=0
Γ(s
k
)γ(s
k
)
h
2
(s
k
)
m
−1−s
k
logm+O(1).
– Break at conjunctions and align with a two-em quad from
the left.
=
+
−
×
or
−
×
+

13.17. Breaking and aligning equations in displays119
Example:
b
ι
f
t
(φ
ι
(p),ξ/τ;e, k)
+

τ
−1
Ψ
−1
(U)
e
i
∑
N
|α|>0,j
c
j
α
(p)(τζ)
α
ξ
j
/τ
α

ι

p·exp
e

τ

ζ
i
X
i


·τ
d
(f
t
β)

kexp
e

τ

ζ
i
X
i

k
−1

J(τζ)dζ
−

R
d
e
i
∑
N
|α|>0,j
c
j
α
(p)(τζ)
α
ξ
j
/τ
α

ι

p·exp
e

τ

ζ
i
X
i


·(c
0
β)

kexp
e

τ

ζ
i
X
i

k
−1

e
−b
∑
ζ
i
X
i

q/(q−1)
θ
J(τζ)dζ+O(t).
– General rule: Always keep expressions visually within
fences.If the break occurs within a set of fences, the operator
should line up to the right of the opening fence to indicate that
this line of display belongs inside the fences.
=

+
−

Example:
e
−u/
=
#
D
1
(b
1
)e
b
1
/
+
u

b
1
f

(t)e
t/
dt
+e
(c
2
−u)/
e
−c
2
/
D
1
(b
1
)e
b
1
/
+
c
2

b
1
f

(t)e
t/
dt
+e
−u/
u

c
2
f

(t)e
t/
dt
$
.

Part 3
Appendices

Appendix A
Functions
and Operators Set
in Roman Type
These functions and operators are set in roman type in both roman and
italic text; however, you may stet superscript and subscript italic functions
and operators.
adadjointcsccosecant
arccosarc cosine
degdegree
arcsinarc sine
detdeterminant
arctanarc tangent
diagdiagonal
argargument
dimdimension
Autautomorphism
divdivergent, divergence
binbinary
expexponential
bd or Bd bound, boundary
Extextension
clclosure
GalGalois group
cokercokernel
gcd or g.c.d. greatest common divisor
constconstant
GLgeneral linear group
coscosine
grgroup
coshhyperbolic cosine
gradgradient
cot or ctg cotangent
hom or Hom homology, homomorphism
cothhyperbolic cotangent
ididentity
Covcovariance
Im orIimage or imaginary part
123

124A. Functions and Operators Set in Roman Type
infinferior or infimumsgnsign
intinterior or interval
sinsine
ker, Kerkernel, Kernel
sinhhyperbolic sine
lgspecial logarithm
SLspecial linear group
limlimit
SOspecial orthogonal group
lim inflimit inferior
spin or Spin spin
lim suplimit superior
Spsymplectic
lnnatural logarithm
SUspecial unitary group
loglogarithm
supsuperior
Logprincipal log
suppsupport
maxmaximum
tantangent
minminimum
tanhhyperbolic tangent
modmodulo
tgspecial tangent
Prob/Prprobability
tr or Trace trace
ptpoint
Varvariance
Rank, rank Rank, rank
wweakstar
Re orRreal part
wrwreath product
secsecant
WrWronskian
sechhyperbolic secant

Appendix B
Some Mathematician
Names
When combining two author names to create an adjectival form, the en
dash is used: Cauchy–Schwarz formula. This is to make the use of two
authors’ names distinct from a hyphenated author name, e.g., Heath-Brown,
Swinnerton-Dyer, Colliot-Th ́el`ene. The limiting factor in this, however, is
the copy editor’s ability to track down the names to ensure accuracy between
names that are combined as adjectives and those that are just the author’s
name. For this reason, we will allow hyphens in all such constructions when
they are used consistently. It is important for the copy editor to understand
this distinction and to honor it whenever possible.
Note the difference between the suffixes “-ean” and “-ian” in creat-
ing the adjectival form of an author name. By scholarly convention, an-
cient/classical mathematicians (generally Greek) take “-ean”, while mathe-
maticians of the current era take “-ian”. It is acceptable for the adjectival
form to be capitalized or lowercased, as long as its use is consistent.
Abel (Abelian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Ackermann
Arnol

d (Arnold; stet if consistent)
Arrhenius
Artin (Artinian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Arzel`a
Ascoli
Babuska
Banach
125

126B. Some Mathematician Names
Bayes (Bayesian; stet lowercase if consistent)
B ́enard
Bernoulli
Bessel
B ́ezout
Bhattacharya
Birkhoff
Blaschke
Bohr
Bochner
Boltzmann
Boole (Boolean; stet lowercase if consistent)
Borel
Boussinesq
Brouwer
Browder
Brown (Brownian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Burgers (Burgers’s equation, but the Burgers equation)
Carath ́eodory
Cauchy (Cauchy–Schwarz)
Cayley
Ces`aro
Chandrasekhar
Chapman (Chapman–Jouguet)
Chebyshev (sometimes Tchebyshev or Tschebycheff when referencing
T-systems)
Cholesky (Choleski)
Christoffel
Clairaut
Clapeyron
Clausius (Clausius–Clapeyron)
Colliot-Th ́el`ene
Cotes
Couette
Coulomb
Courant
Courdesses
Cramer (Cramer’s rule)
Cram ́er (H. Cram ́er–Rao)
Crank (Crank–Nicolson)
d’Alembert
Damk ̈ohler
Darboux

B. Some Mathematician Names127
de Boor
de Bruijn
de Bruin
Dedekind
de Graaf
de Vries
de Moivre
De Morgan
Debye
Delves
Descartes (Cartesian), Ren ́e
Dini
Dirichlet
Eisenstein (not to be confused with “Einstein”)
Erd ́elyi
Erd ̋os
Erlang
Euclid (Euclidean; stet lowercase if consistent)
Euler (pronounced “oiler”—preceded by “an” not “a”;
Eulerian—stet lowercase if consistent)
Faber (Faber–Pad ́e)
Fatou
Fej ́er
Fermat
Fibonacci
Filippov
Fitzhugh (Fitzhugh–Nagumo)
Fokker (Fokker–Planck)
Fourier
Fr ́echet
Fredholm
Frobenius
Fubini
Fuchs (Fuchsian)
Galerkin
Galois
Gˆateaux
Gauss (Gauss–Seidel)
Gel

fand (or Gelfand; Gel

fand–Levitan)
Gelfond
G ̈odel
Godunov
Goertzel

128B. Some Mathematician Names
Gordon (sine-Gordon)
Grassmann (Grassmannian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Gronwall
Hadamard
Hahn (Hahn–Banach)
Hamilton (Hamiltonian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Hankel
Hausdorff
Heath-Brown
Heaviside
Helmholtz
Herglotz
Hermite (Hermitian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Hesse (Hessian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Hilbert
H ̈older
Holmgren
Hopf
Hugoniot
Huygens (Huyghens)
Ito (Itˆo, It ̄o)
Jacobi (Jacobian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Jouguet
Joule
Kepler
Khinchine
Kirchhoff
Klein (Klein–Gordon)
Kolmogorov
Korteweg (Korteweg–de Vries)
Kronecker
Krylov
Kuhn (Kuhn–Tucker)
Kutta
l’Hˆopital (also spelled “l’Hospital”; preferred spelling is “l’Hˆopital”)
Ladyzhenskaya
Lagrange (Lagrangian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Laguerre
Lam ́e
Langmuir
Laplace
Laurent

B. Some Mathematician Names129
Lebesgue
Lefschetz
Legendre
Leibniz
Levi-Civita
Levitan
L ́evy
Lie
Liouville
Lipschitz (Lifshits)
Liptser
Lojasiewicz
Lov`asz
Lyapunov (Liapunov)
Mac Lane
Maclaurin
Markov (Markovian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Mattheij
Mathieu
Megiddo
Meijer
Minkowski
M ̈obius (Moebius)
Nagumo (Fitzhugh–Nagumo)
Napier
Navier (Navier–Stokes)
Neumann
Newton (Newton–Raphson)
Nicolson
Nikod ́ym
Noether (Noetherian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Nordsieck
Obreshkov
Odlyzko
Pad ́e
Parseval
Pascal
Perron
Picard
Planck
Poincar ́e
Poiseuille
Poisson

130B. Some Mathematician Names
P ́olya
Pontryagin
Poussin
Prandtl
Prufer
Pythagoreas (Pythagorean theorem) Radon
Raphson
Rayleigh (Rayleigh–Ritz)
Reade
Reinsch
R ́enyi
Riccati
Richtmyer
Riemann (Riemannian; stet lowercase if consistent)
Riesz
Ritz
Rodrigues
Rolle
Runge (Runge–Kutta)
Schlicht
Schr ̈odinger (Schroedinger)
Schur
Schwarz (Schwarz–Christoffel, Cauchy–Schwarz)
Schwartz
Shilov
Siegel
Stefan
Steinitz
Stieltjes
Stifel
Stokes
Student
Sturm (Sturm–Liouville)
Sussmann
Swinnerton-Dyer (Birch–Swinnerton-Dyer)
Szeg ̋o
Szemer ́edi
Tikhonov
Toeplitz
Tukey
Tur ́an
de la Valle ́e-Poussin
van der Pol
van der Waals

B. Some Mathematician Names131
van der Waarden (Waerden)
Vandermonde
Vlasov (Vlasov–Poisson)
Volterra
von Koch
von Neumann
Voronoi
Wessel
Weierstrass (Weierstrass approximation)
Weil
Weiner
Weyl
Wiener
Wronski (Wronskian; stet lowercase if consistent)

Appendix C
Common
Abbreviations and
Latin Expressions
There are a number of standard scholarly abbreviations and Latin expres-
sions that appear in text without explanation. The list below shows some
of the more common examples (see CMS, section 10.43, for a comprehen-
sive list of abbreviations). Unless otherwise marked, all abbreviations and
expressions listed below are text dependent.
133

134C. Common Abbreviations and Latin Expressions
a.a.almost always
a.e.almost everywhere
a.s.almost surely
a prioriformed or conceived beforehand, presumed
cf.compare (confer, never c.f.; not a substitute for “see”)
e.g.for example (exempli gratia; not a substitute for “i.e.”)
et al.and others (et alii, et alia)
etc.and so forth (et cetera)
ibidin the same place (ibidem)
i.e.that is (id est; not a substitute for “e.g.”)
iffif and only if
i.i.d.independent and identically distributed
loc. cit.in the place cited (loco citato)
op. cit.in the work cited (opere citato, but try to avoid this)
viz.namely (videlicet)
w.r.t. or wrtwith respect to
w.l.o.g. or wlog without loss of generality

Appendix D
Nomenclature
The following list presents some mathematical nomenclature as well as words
that are often misspelled or mishyphenated; it represents AMS preferred
use. Please note, however, that the copy editor should stet an author’s
preferencewhen used consistently, but if an author’s usage is inconsistent
within a paper, change all occurrences to AMS preferred use.
A compound marked with an asterisk is hyphenatedonlywhen it pre-
cedes the noun it modifies (see CMS, section 7.85, for exhaustive guidance on
hyphenation). There are four mathematics-specific exceptions to this rule:
“well-behaved”, “well-defined”, “well-order”, and “well-posed”. The copy
editor shouldnotchange any of these four expressions when hyphenated.
well-behaved: In mathematics, a pathological phenomenon having in-
tuitive, easy to handle properties; especially, having a finite derivative
of all orders at all points, and having no discontinuities.
well-defined: In mathematics an expression is called “well-defined” or
“unambiguous” if itsdefinitionassigns it a unique interpretation or
value; otherwise, the expression is said to be “not well-defined” or
“ambiguous”.
well-order: In mathematics a “well-order” (or “well-ordering” or “well-
order relation”) on a setSis a total “order” onSwith the property that
every nonempty subset ofShas a least element in this “ordering”. The
setStogether with the “well-order relation” is called a “well-ordered
set”.
well-posed: As defined by Jacques Hadamard, a problem is well-posed
(or correctly set) if (a) it has a solution, (b) the solution is unique, (c)
the solution depends continuously on data and parameters.
135

136D. Nomenclature
abelian/Abelian
*above-mentioned
abscissa
acknowledgment
adduce
adelic
adjoint/adjoined
admissible
analogue (noun)
analog (adjective)
analyticity
ansatz
archimedean/Archimedean
azimuth
bijection
Boole/boolean
byproduct
canceled/canceling, but cancellation
canonicity
cardioid
cartesian/Cartesian but Descartes
clopen
concatenation
contragradient
contragredient
coordinatewise
cross section (noun)
dependences
dependencies
descendant (noun)
descendent (adjective)
deviatoric
dihedral
discretized
eikonal
embedding
epitrochoid
́etale
extendible
euclidean/Euclidean

D. Nomenclature137
gaussian/Gaussian
homorphism
homomorphism (different meaning from homeomorphism;
this is an algebraic term)
homeomorphism (different meaning from homomorphism;
this is a topological term)
homogeneous (homogenous)
hysteresis
imbedding
infimum
kernel
labeled
*left-hand
martingale
media (plural of medium)
metastable
minuscule
modeled
normable
occurrence
occurring
online
oscillatory
osculatory
paradigm
parallelepiped
parameterize, parametrize (stet author’s use)
parsable, parsing
perturbation
poloid, poloidal
precede, preceding
proceed, proceeding
pseudo (noun compounds open, adjective compounds hyphenated)
quasi (noun compounds open, adjective compounds hyphenated)
riemannian/Riemannian
*right-hand
self- (see section 12.7.5)
separatrices
separatrix

138D. Nomenclature
setup (noun)
*set-up (adjective)
set up (verb)
*so-called
solenoidal
soliton
stoichiometry
stratagem
subtracted
substracted
subsumed
supremum
toroidal
traveled
*well-known (adjective before noun, but not if it’s modified:
very well known)
zeros
zeroth

Appendix E
Variables
in Various Fonts
and Languages
RomanGermanCalligraphicScriptBBB
aAaAAAA
bBbBBBB
cCcCCCC
dDdDDDD
eEeEEEE
fFfFFFF
gGgGGGG
hHhHHHH
iIiIIII
jJjJJJJ
kKkKKKK
lLlLLLL
mMmMMMM
nNnNNNN
oOoOOOO
pPpPPPP
qQqQQQQ
rRrRRRR
sSsSSSS
tTtTTTT
uUuUUUU
vVvVVVV
wWwWWWW
xXxXXXX
yYyYYYY
zZzZZZZ
139

140E. Variables in Various Fonts and Languages
HebrewOthersOthers
alephאpartial∂Weierstrassp℘
bethcomplementscriptl
dalethimaginary,BBB “one”
ethðreal-Cyrillic “sha”X
gimelגnabla∇mho
GreekGreek variants
alphaαA
betaβB
gammaγΓvarGammaΓ
deltaδΔvarDeltaΔ
epsilonEvarepsilonε
zetaζZ
etaηH
thetaθΘvarthetaθΘ
iotaιI
kappaκKvarkappaκ
lambdaλΛvarLambdaΛ
muμM
nuνN
xiξΞvarXiΞ
omicronoO
piπΠvarpi#Π
rhoρPvarrho%
sigmaσΣvarsigmaςΣ
tauτT
upsilonυΥvarUpsilonΥ
phiφΦvarphiφΦ
psiψΨvarPsiΨ
chiχX
omegaωΩvarOmegaΩ

Appendix F
Commonly Confused
Words
Be careful not to confuse the words in the following (very brief) list. Check
the dictionary or query the author to resolve inconsistencies. For more
extensive guidance, see CMS, section 5.220.
•affect vs. effect
•analogue (noun) vs. analog (adjective)
•assure vs. ensure vs. insure
•between vs. among
•bibliography (book) vs. references (journal)
•cite vs. site
•comprise vs. compose
•corrigenda (plural) vs. corrigendum (singular)
•currently vs. presently
•datum vs. data (“data”alwaystakes a plural verb)
•dependences and dependances vs. dependencies
•descendant (noun) vs. descendent (adjective)
•dilation vs. dilatation
•discrete vs. discreet
•errata (plural) vs. erratum (singular)
•farther vs. further
•foreword vs. preface
141

142F. Commonly Confused Words
•if vs. whether
•imply vs. infer
•indexes vs. indices
•lay vs. lie (≈lay=place, lie=recline)
•less vs. fewer
•maybe vs. may be
•on vs. upon
•precede, preceding vs. proceed, proceeding
•principle vs. principal
•proved vs. proven
•quibu vs. abacus
•quote (verb) vs. quotation (noun)
•substracted vs. subtracted
•till vs. until (never ‘til)
•toward (American English) vs. towards (British English)
(backward, forward, upward, downward, afterward)
•who vs. whom (≈who=he, whom=him)
•zeros (American English) vs. zeroes (British English)

Appendix G
Sample Edited Article
This appendix presents a sample of an author’s original manuscript and the
edited AMS output. Each page of the author’s original and the AMS output
are laid out on facing pages, with the original on the left-hand page and the
AMS output on the right-hand page. The AMS output has been marked up
by hand. The final page of this appendix shows a completed AMS Journal
Article Checklist and Style Sheet.
Please note that this “paper” is complete gibberish: it was assembled
from bits and pieces of works chosen for their variety of problems, and it was
further mangled by the authors of this guide to have maximum instructive
effect. These really are commonly encountered problems in copy editing for
the AMS.
143

144Appendix G: Author original

Appendix G: AMS output145

146Appendix G: Author original

Appendix G: AMS output147

148Appendix G: Author original

Appendix G: AMS output149

150Appendix G: Author original

Appendix G: AMS output151

152Appendix G: Author original

Appendix G: AMS output153

154Appendix G: Author original

Appendix G: AMS output155

156Appendix G: Author original

Appendix G: AMS output157

Bibliography
[AmHer]The American Heritage dictionary of the English language: Fifth edition,
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, Boston, 2012.
[CMS16]The Chicago manual of style, 16th edition, The University of Chicago Press,
Chicago, 2010.
[LaTeX] Michel Goossens, Frank Mittelbach, and Alexander Samarin,The L
A
T
E
XCom-
panion, Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Reading, MA, 1994.
[MAU] Wilson Follett,Modern American usage: A guide, revised edition, Hill and Wang,
Inc. [Farrar, Straus and Giroux], New York, 1998.
[MEU] H. W. Fowler,A dictionary of modern English usage, second edition, Oxford
University Press, Oxford, 1965.
[MIT] Ellen Swanson,Mathematics into type, updated edition (Arlene O’Sean and
Antoinette Schleyer, editors), American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI,
1999.
[MSN]MathSciNet, Mathematical Reviews [A division of the American Mathematical
Society], Ann Arbor, MI, 2010.
[M-W]The Merriam-Webster dictionary, G&C Merriam Co. [An Encyclopædia Britan-
nica Company], Springfield, MA, 2003.
[SSG]SIAM style manual, Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, Philadel-
phia, 2013.
[S-W3] William Strunk, Jr., and E. B. White,The elements of style, third edition,
Macmillan Publishing Co., Inc., New York, 1979.
[TCW] Theodore M. Bernstein,The careful writer: A modern guide to English usage,
Athaneum [Macmillan Publishing Company], New York, 1977.
[Wiki]Wikipedia:Thefreeencyclopedia, The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., San Fran-
cisco, 2017
[WIT] Marjorie E. Skillin and Robert M. Gay,Words into type, Prentice-Hall, Inc.
[A Simon & Schuster Company], Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1974.
159

Index
About the author(s),22,23
abstract,15,17
footnotes within, 18
JAMS, exception, 19
references within, 17
Acknowledgment(s),22,23
acronyms, 83–84
consistent use, 83
key words as, 83
plurals spelled with “s”, 83
spell out at first use, 83
addmr,63
affiliations,22,25
AMS Journal Article Checklist and
Style Sheet,6
checklist portion, 7
numbering systems portion, 7, 8, 29
style sheet portion, 7, 8
AMS journal papers
author prepared, 5
L
A
T
E
X, 5
AMS production system
online, 5
print, 5
appendices, 61–62
callouts, 62
form, 61
heading styles, 61
location, 61
long tables, 61
numbering styles, 61
article contents, 19
authors,15,16
basic editing, 74–75
bias-free language, 95
blackboard bold, 76,139
British spelling, 74, 142
calligraphic type, 76,139
callouts
figures, 9, 75, 82
tables, 9, 75, 82
capitalization
in lists, 79–80
numbered enunciations, 81
proper nouns, 79, 81
sentence style, 27, 28, 46, 54, 79, 90
cases
conditions, 109
citation style
alphanumeric, 8, 66
name and year, 8, 66
numbered, 8, 66
wide,8,66
communicating editor,15,17
contributors, 17
copy editor’s responsibility for
figures, 45
references, 63
tables, 53
copycheck, 64
copyediting
elementary rules, 72
rules for the AMS, 72
copyright information,15,21
161

162Index
corrigenda, 67–68
abstract, 67, 68
mathematical, 67
MSN numbers, 67, 68
received date, 67, 68
references to original article, 68
running head, 68
title, 68
Cyrillic, 75, 78,140
dedication,15,17
dingbats, definition, 3
,3
,3
ok,3
downstream processing, 4, 72, 82
abstract, 17, 18, 68
authors, 16
figure callouts, 9, 45
lists, 41
table callouts, 9, 53
title, 16, 68
email address,22,26
end matter, 15, 21–26
About the author(s)
BAMS, exception, 23
Acknowledgment(s), 23
affiliations, 25
elements,22
email address, 26
Note added in proof, 24
references, 25
translator, 26
URL, 26
English as a second language (ESL), 74,
96
enunciations, 31–35
algorithm as computer code,35
algorithm as theorem style,35
as proper nouns, 81
capitalization, 81
definition style,33
numbered, 31
proof style,32
remark style,33
spell out full name, 81
theorem style,31
unnumbered, 31
variants for algorithms, 34
with parenthetical text, 34
with proofs, 34
equations
alignment, 116–119
breaking in displays, 116–119
align on operators (verbs), 117
alignment, 117
before an operator, 116
errata, 67–68
online, 67
publication, 67
figures, 45–52
callouts, 48, 75, 82
captions, 46
end punctuation, 46
permission statements within, 47
position, 9, 46
sentence style, 46
style, 46
copy editor’s responsibility for, 45, 47
landscape, 46, 49,52
multiple parts, 46,49
not mathematical displays, 46
numbering, 45–46
periods in captions, 84
permissions, 47
placement, 48
numbered, 48
unnumbered, 48
sizing, 48–49
fonts
Computer Modern (CM), 4
STIX, 4
footnotes, 37–38
mathematics within, 38
references within, 38
within mathematics, 38
fractions
case, 107, 108
display style, 108
slashed, 107, 108
stacked, 107, 108
text style, 108
functions and operators,123, 124
set in italic type, 78
set in roman type, 78,123
in math, 78
in text, 78
gender-neutral language, 95
German (fraktur), 75, 76,139

Index163
grant support information,15,20
Greek, 75, 78,140
Hebrew, 75, 78,140
hyphenated compounds
math-specific terms,135
italics
at first use of a term, 77
for emphasis, 77
for mathematical variables, 76
parentheses, 77
text in enunciations, 31
journal papers
accepted manuscript, 8
AMS output, 8
key words and phrases, 20
L
A
T
E
X
copy editor’s job made easier by, 5
spacing in displays
L
A
T
E
X will adjust, 113, 114
linking
numbered enunciations, 31, 73
numbered figures, 73, 75
numbered tables, 73, 75
reference citations, 73, 75
lists, 39–44
examples of, 42–44
in-text callouts to, 41
item identifiers, 39
within enumerate environment, 39
within itemize environment, 39
numbering, 39–41
parallel construction, 40, 79
problem for downstream processing,
41
punctuation and capitalization, 41, 79
style, 40
logo,15,15
manuscript package, 7
mathematical corrigendum, 67
mathematical expressions
functions and operators, 98–100
abbreviated forms, 98–100
as subscripts and superscripts, 99
capitalization, 98
functions, 98–100
set roman, 98
sometimes italic, 99
thin space after, 99
Mathematical Reviews (MR), 63
mathematical symbols, 75
as parts of speech,75
mathematics editing, 97–119
breaking equations
in displays, 116–119
in logic, 116
in text, 114–116
cases, 109–110
centered dots (···), 102–103
conditions, 109
diagrams, 111–112
direct sum (⊕,
⊕
), 105
equation numbers, 112
vertical placement, 112
fences, 103–104
angle brackets, 103
braces, 103
brackets, 103
double bars, 103
in combinations, 103
parentheses, 103
single bar, 103
fractions, 107–109
case, 107, 108
display style, 108
slashed, 107, 108
stacked, 107, 108
text style, 108
functions and operators, 98–100
integrals (
∫
), 106–107
intersections (∩,
⋂
), 105–106
line dots (...), 102–103
matrices, 110
numbers, 97–98
10 and over, 97
roman numerals, 98
single digit, 97
products (
∏
), 104–105
punctuation, 100–102
colons, 102
conditions, 100
elided lists, 100
with “for all” (∀), 100
with left- or right-braced
equations, 101
with nonrestrictive phrases, 100
spacing in displays, 113–114
L
A
T
E
X will adjust, 113
sums (
∑
), 104–105

164Index
tensor product (⊗,
⊗
), 105
unions (∪,
⋃
), 105–106
variables, 98,139, 140
wedge product (∧,
∧
), 105
wedge sum (∨,
∨
), 105
Mathematics Subject Classification,15,
19
Note added in proof, 24
numbered enunciations, 8
numbering system
anomalies, 8
assessment, 8
open punctuation, 11
pageref,75
paging
bad line breaks, 10
short or long pages, 10
parallel construction, 40, 79, 83
parentheses
within italic text, 77
part title or other supersection heads,
29
publication erratum, 67
punctuation, 84–95
apostrophe, 94
for possessive form of names ending
in “s”, 94
plurals of variables, 94
colon
before lists, 87
capitalization after, 87
capitalization after in titles, 90
with “following”, 88
comma
open style, 11, 84
parenthetical, 84
serial, 84
splice, 84
when to add, 84–86
when to delete, 86
with conditions, 109
em dash, 93–94
a colon withflair,93
for emphasis, 93
for parenthetical elements, 94
en dash, 93
in multiword compound modifiers,
93
ranges, 93
with author names, 93
hyphen, 91–92
in “th” constructions, 92
in mathematical terms, 91
in prefixes, 91
in suffixes, 91
in word pairs indicating opposition,
91
when to avoid, 92
periods
in abbreviated hyphenated names,
84
in captions, 84
quotation marks, 94–95
direct quotes, 94
double quotation marks, 94
logical, not newspaper, style, 95
scare quotes, 94
single quotation marks, 95
vs. italics, 95
semicolon
in lists, 80, 84, 87
splice, 86
with conjunctions, 85
with independent clauses, 87
QED box, 32
queries, 7, 10
AMS query, 7
Author query, 7
how to phrase, 10
when it is necessary, 10
quotations, 95
block, 95
in text, 95
received and revised dates,15,19
references,22, 25, 63–66
3-em line, 64
alphanumeric forms, 8, 66
arXiv works, 64
author’s original, 63
citation styles, 8
alphanumeric abbreviation, 8
name and year, 8
numbered, 8
citations, 66
copy editor’s responsibility for, 63
copycheck, 64
follow MR style, 64
in abstract, 17
MathSciNet(MSN), 63

Index165
MR number, 64
MSN substitutions, 63
known problems, 64
name and year forms, 8, 66
numbered forms, 8, 66
personal communication, 64
wide forms, 8, 66
with DOI number, 65
running heads, 15, 21
script, 76,139
§(section sign)
allowable usage, 30, 81
“section”
lowercase, 30, 81
spell out, 30, 81
section head, 27–30
AMS style, 29
callouts in text, 30
capitalization, 27
letters, 30
numbered “0”, 30
numbering, 29–30
parenthetical information within, 28
punctuation, 27
references within, 28
roman numerals in, 30
styles, 27–29
unnumbered, 30
slant type,76
subsection head, 27–30
AMS style, 29
callouts in text, 30
parenthetical information within, 28
punctuation, 28
subsubsection head
AMS style, 29
symbols
direct sum (⊕,
⊕
), 105
integrals (
∫
), 75, 106
in display, 106
in text, 106
intersections (∩,
⋂
), 105–106
products (
∏
), 75, 104
in display, 104
in text, 104
sums (
∑
), 75, 104
in display, 104
in text, 104
table of easily confused, 105
tensor product (⊗,
⊗
), 105
unions (∪,
⋃
), 105–106
wedge product (∧,
∧
), 105
wedge sum (∨,
∨
), 105
tables, 53–60
callouts, 53, 55, 75, 82
captions, 54–55
end punctuation, 55
permissions statements within, 55
position, 9, 54
sentence style, 54
style, 54
copy editor’s responsibility for, 53
landscape, 56,60
misnumbered as a figure, 54
multiple parts,58
numbering, 54
periods in captions, 84
permissions, 55
placement, 55
numbered, 56
unnumbered, 56
sizing, 56
text block, 3–4
AMS primary journals, 3
Russian translation journals, 4
text dependent style, 77
abbreviations, 78, 80
English terms, 80
Latin words, 78, 80
title,15,15
top matter, 15–21
abstract,15,17
article contents, 19
authors,15,16
in running heads, 16, 21
styling names, 16
communicating editor,15
PAMS, exception, 17
contributors, 17
copyright information,15,21
dedication,15,17
elements,14
grant support information,15,20
key words and phrases, 20
logo,15,15
Mathematics Subject Classification,
15,19
received and revised dates,15,19
title,15,15
in running heads, 21
shortening for running heads, 21
translator, 26

166Index
type, 76–79
blackboard bold, 76,139
bold, 76
calligraphic type, 76,139
Cyrillic, 78,140
for emphasis
in italic text, 78
in roman text, 78
German (fraktur), 76,139
Greek, 78,140
Hebrew, 78,140
italics, 76
roman, 77
script, 76,139
slant,76
URL,22,26,53
variables, 98,139, 140
blackboard bold, 98
bold italic, 98
bold roman, 98
calligraphic type, 98
German (fraktur), 98
italic, 98
roman, 98
wording, 80–83
“if/then” constructions, 82
“let/be” statements, 82
use of “above”, 82
use of “below”, 82
use of “for all” (∀), 81, 99–101
use of “that” vs. “which”, 82
useof“thesequel”,82
use of “there exists” (∃), 81, 99
use proper parallelization, 83
well-behaved, 80, 135
well-defined, 80, 135
well-order, 80, 135
well-posed, 80, 135
what to avoid at start of sentence, 80

AMS Style Guide
Journals
October 2017
AMS Style Guide: Journals
AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY
160 pages • 3/8 inch • 7 x 10 inches
