<Publications & Submissions<Journals<Information for Authors
<Journal Guidelines<References
References
Within the text, references should be cited in numerical order according
to their order of appearance. The numbered reference citation within text
should be enclosed in brackets.
Example: It was shown by Prusa [1] that the width of the plume decreases
under these conditions.
In the case of two citations, the numbers should be separated by a
comma [1,2]. In the case of more than two references, the numbers
should be separated by a dash [5-7].
Note: ASME primarily uses a form of the Chicago Manual of Style for
reference format. Authors are encouraged to seek out precise
instructions via: http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/.
Interested in receiving our Step-by-Step Guide to
Funding Your Engineering Research and other valuable
resources? Get access
ASME does not allow references to Wikipedia.

Sample References
References should be listed together at the end of the paper; footnotes
should not be used for this purpose.
References should be arranged in numerical order according to the
sequence of citations within the text. Each reference should include the
last name of each author followed by initials and/or first name.
Journal Articles and Papers in Serial Publications
To cite an online journal article in Chicago style, list the author’s name,
the publication date, the title of the article, the journal name, volume,
issue, the page range on which the article appears, and a DOI or URL.
For an article accessed in print, follow the same format and simply omit
the DOI or URL.
If there are 11 or more authors, list the first seven in the bibliography,
followed by “et al.”
Journal Article Examples:
[3] Adams, Z., 2014, “Bending of an Infinite Beam on an Elastic
Substrate,” ASME J Appl. Mech., 3, pp. 221-228.
5] Pickard, Hanna, 2014, “What Is Personality Disorder?” Philosophy,
Psychiatry, & Psychology 18(3): 181–84.
https://doi.org/10.1353/ppp.2011.0040.
9] Zhang, T. W., Khun, C., Liu, Q., and Miller, A. P., 2011, “Self-Healing
Techniques,” Nature, 332(6662), pp. 888-892.
Textbooks and Monographs
[10] Gibson, T.A., and Tucker, M. T., 2008, The Big Book of Cellular
Studies, John Wiley and Sons, NY.
Chapter Within a Book
[32] Stevens, T. T., 1999, “Stochastic Fields and Their Digital
Simulation,” Stochastic Methods. T. A. Sulle, and M. Siiu, eds., Martinius
Publishers, Dordrecht, Germany, pp. 22-36 URL.
Individual Conference Papers/Papers in Compiled
Proceedings/Collection of Works by Numerous Authors
[21] Wions, T. T., and Mills, C. D., 2006, “Structural Dynamics in Parallel
Manipulation,” Proceedings of the IDETC/CIE, New Orleans, LA,

September 10-13, 2005, ASME Paper No. DETC2005-99532, pp. 777-
798.
[2] Wayne, John “John Cowboy Videos 2009,” YouTube video, 7:00,
November 13, 2009, http://www.you tube.com/ watch?v=
aBcDeFgH9yz.
[5] Tigues, Tim, “Dancing for Horses.” HorseLife. April 24, 2020.
https://www.horselife.com/15/22/43/51.
[3] “Apple Privacy Policy,” last modified February 4, 2009, accessed
July 19, 2010, http://www.apple.com/intl/en/privacypolicy.html.
[17] “WD2000: Visual Basic Macro to Assign Clipboard Text to a String
Variable,” revision 1.3, Microsoft Help and Support, last modified
November 23, 2006, http://support.microsoft.com/kb/212730.
[22] Bryson, Mia, “One Fish, Five Fish.” FishLife. August 22, 2010. Last
Modified February 20, 2021.
Theses and Technical Reports
[1] Oligaria, T. T., Fredy, C. W., Popullo, A. Z., and Tucker, M. A., 20111,
“Characterization of PKM Dynamics,” SAE Technical Paper No. 2011-02-
8345, 07ATC-96.
[25] Mollen, T., P., 2014, “Use of General Nonlinear Material in
Articulated Systems,” Ph.D. dissertation, University of Boston, Boston,
MA.
[27] Clinton, D., 2013, “Review of Rocket Technology,” NASA Report No.
NASA RE-8842.
E-Books and Online Books
When citing a book you accessed online or in the form of an e-book,
simply add relevant information about its format or location to the end of
your citation.
[21] Tufits, Lane, 2021, To Be or Not to Be. Scholastic, Philadelphia. URL
or DOI.
[23] Smith, John, 2014, A Dog’s Life in Berlin. Oxford University Press,
New York. : 10.1055/acprof.oso/97890.0394.000.
Citing ASME Journal Titles
In order to improve the accuracy of citation data collection, ASME has
standardized the following abbreviations for the titles in the ASME
Journal Program. Authors should use these abbreviations for ASME titles
in their references.
Note: ASME needs to be in front of all ASME titles:
ASME Journal TitleAbbreviation
Applied Mechanics ReviewsAppl Mech Rev
ASME Letters in Dynamic Systems
and Control
ASME Letters Dyn Syst
Contr
ASME Letters in Translational
Robotics
ASME Lett Trans Robot
ASCE-ASME Journal of Risk and
Uncertainty in Engineering Systems,
Part B: Mechanical Engineering
ASCE-ASME J Risk
Uncertainty Eng Syst Part
B: Mech Eng
ASME Journal of Engineering for
Sustainable Buildings and Cities
J of Sustainable Bldg
and Cities
ASME Journal of Engineering and
Science in Medical Diagnostics and
Therapy
J Eng Sci Med Diagn
Ther
Journal of Applied MechanicsJ Appl Mech
Journal of Autonomous Vehicles
and Systems
J Auton Veh Syst
Journal of Biomechanical
Engineering
J Biomech Eng

Journal of Computational and
Nonlinear Dynamics
J Comput Nonlin Dyn
Journal of Computing and
Information Science in Engineering
J Comput Inf Sci Eng
Journal of Dynamic Systems,
Measurement and Control
J Dyn Syst Meas Contr
Journal of Electrochemical Energy
Conversion and Storage
J Electrochem Energy
Convers Storage
Journal of Electronic PackagingJ Electron Packag
Journal of Energy Resources
Technology
J Energy Res Technol
Journal of Energy Resources
Technology, Part A: Sustainable and
Renewable Energy
J. Energy Res. Technol.
Part A
Journal of Energy Resources
Technology, Part B: Subsurface
Energy and Carbon Capture
J. Energy Res. Technol.
Part B
Journal of Engineering for Gas
Turbines and Power
J Eng Gas Turbines
Power
Journal of Engineering Materials
and Technology
J Eng Mater Technol
Journal of Fluids EngineeringJ Fluids Eng
Journal of Fuel Cell Science and
Technology
J Fuel Cell Sci Technol
Journal of Heat and Mass TransferJ. Heat Mass Transfer
Journal of Manufacturing Science
and Engineering
J Manuf Sci Eng
Journal of Mechanical DesignJ Mech Des
Journal of Mechanisms and
Robotics
J Mech Rob
Journal of Medical DevicesJ Med Devices
Journal of Micro and Nano-
Manufacturing
J Micro Nano-Manuf
Journal of Micro and Nano Science
and Engineering
J Micro Nano Sci Eng
Journal of Nanotechnology in
Engineering and Medicine
J Nanotechol Eng Med
Journal of Nondestructive
Evaluation, Diagnostics and
Prognostics of Engineering Systems
J Nondestructive
Evaluation
Journal of Nuclear Engineering in
Radiation Science
J Nucl Eng Radiat Sci
Journal of Offshore Mechanics and
Arctic Engineering
J Offshore Mech Arct
Eng
Journal of Pressure Vessel
Technology
J Pressure Vessel
Technol
Journal of Solar Energy
Engineering: Including Wind Energy
and Building Energy Conservation
J Sol Energy Eng

Journal of Thermal Science and
Engineering Applications
J Therm Sci Eng Appl
Journal of TribologyJ Tribol
Journal of TurbomachineryJ Turbomach
Journal of Verification, Validation,
and Uncertainty Quantification
J Verif Valid Uncertainty
Quantif
Journal of Vibration and AcousticsJ Vib Acoust
Step-by-Step Research Funding Guide
Download your free Step-by-Step Guide to Funding Your Engineering
Research. With a global outlook, this guide is useful to all engineering
researchers.
Avoid common application mistakes
Boost your confidence when applying
Funding tips and information for engineers around the world
Guidelines for managing research funds
Sign up to receive this guide and additional helpful resources for your
research journey.

First Name*Last Name*
Institution/Company Name*Country/Region*
Please Select
School or Work Email*
What are your engineering field(s) of interest?
From time to time, we would like to contact you about our products and services, as well as
other content that may be of interest to you. If you consent to us contacting you for this
purpose, please tick the box below:
I agree to receive other communications from ASME.
You can unsubscribe from these communications at any time. For more information on how to
unsubscribe, our privacy practices, and how we are committed to protecting and respecting
your privacy, please review our Privacy Policy.
By clicking submit below, you consent to allow ASME to store and process the personal
information submitted above to provide you the content requested.
About ASME

Terms of UsePrivacy and Security StatementCommunication Preferences
Sales PolicySitemap©2026 The American Society of Mechanical Engineers.All rights reserved.
©2026 The American Society of Mechanical Engineers.All rights reserved.
Codes & Standards
Certification & Accreditation
Learning & Development
Publications & Submissions
Conferences & Events
Topics & Resources
ASME Membership
